
=== PAGE /exams/b1-preliminary/b1-pet-exam-1-listening/
Q 7607 [radio] When is the movie starting?
 13275) A. 
 13276) B. 
 13277) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: DAVE: Karen, are you coming to the film tonight with me, Jack and Ellie? /  KAREN: Which movie, Dave? /  DAVE: It’s called ‘Adventure into Darkness’. It’s supposed to be excellent! /  KAREN: Really? I didn’t hear anything about it. What time are you meeting the others? /  DAVE: The film doesn’t start until 8, but we’re meeting for dinner at around half-past six. /  KAREN: I’m working until exactly six, and I have to take the train, so I don’t know if I’ll be there on time for dinner. /  DAVE: It’s okay if you’re late. If you arrive around seven, it still gives us plenty of time to chat and you can still get something to eat. /  KAREN: That sounds great. What time does the movie end? /  DAVE: I’m not sure really... maybe ten? The trains will still be running, so don’t worry about that. /  KAREN: Okay. See you around seven!
Q 7608 [radio] 8 How does the man feel about his new place?
 13278) A. He is not sure about how university will go.
 13279) B. He wanted to go to another university, but his parents pressured him to go to Oxford.
 13280) C. He is looking forward to starting university.
  SITE FEEDBACK: RICHARD: Mike, I heard you got a place at Oxford University. That’s amazing! /  MIKE: Thanks Richard. Actually, I’m not sure how I feel about it. /  RICHARD: Why’s that? You should be so happy. I would be! /  MIKE: Well, it’s just that my parents will really put pressure on me to do well now. /  RICHARD: Hmmm. Right, I understand, but don’t worry. You will do well. /  MIKE: I hope so. In some ways, I am happy but, in another way, I’m quite nervous about the whole thing. /  RICHARD: Well, don’t be nervous and enjoy the opportunity. Congratulations!
Q 7609 [radio] 9 What time will they go shopping?
 13281) A. At four o’clock.
 13282) B. At six o’clock.
 13283) C. At half-past six.
  SITE FEEDBACK: STUDENT 1: Are you going to the graduation party, Annabelle? /  STUDENT 2: I don’t know yet. I don’t have anything to wear. That’s the problem. /  STUDENT 1: Do you want to come shopping with me? We can take a look at the Lucy’s Boutique. It’s a new place on Green Street. /  STUDENT 2: Sure… are you going there right now? /  STUDENT 1: No, I can’t. I’m still at work but we can meet after four. /  STUDENT 2: What about if I meet you outside your apartment at half six? I’m in class until 6. /  STUDENT 1: That’s fine. See you then!
Q 7610 [radio] 10 Where will they go later today?
 13284) A. They’re going to dinner.
 13285) B. They’re going to a birthday party.
 13286) C. They are going to a basketball game.
  SITE FEEDBACK: STUDENT 1: Owen, you look upset. What’s going on? /  STUDENT 2: I know it’s silly, but it’s my birthday and my parents and family forgot to call me. /  STUDENT 1: Oh…happy birthday! And no, that’s not silly at all. Of course they should have called, but I suppose they forgot. /  STUDENT 2: Maybe… /  STUDENT 1: Well, your friends didn’t forget! You’re invited to the basketball final with me and Rick... tonight! What do you think? /  STUDENT 2: Wow guys, that’s great! Were you planning this for a long time? /  STUDENT 1: We bought the tickets a month ago. At first, we wanted to throw you a birthday party or invite you to a special dinner, but then we thought this would make you happier. /  STUDENT 2: You bet! Thanks! I feel much better now. I’ve got some great friends!
Q 7611 [radio] 11 What’s wrong with the product?
 13287) A. The monitor doesn’t turn on properly.
 13288) B. The keyboard is broken.
 13289) C. The mouse doesn’t work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: CUSTOMER: Hello. I’d like to return this computer. /  CUSTOMER SERVICE: Is there something wrong? /  CUSTOMER: It doesn’t work. It turns on, but then the screen goes black. The keyboard and mouse are working fine. /  CUSTOMER SERVICE: Did you break the monitor? /  CUSTOMER: No, I didn’t break it! It was already broken when I got it. /  CUSTOMER SERVICE: Alright. Let me have your receipt. Hmm... It’s too late for a refund. /  CUSTOMER: Really? Well, can you offer me an exchange? /  CUSTOMER SERVICE: Yes, you can exchange it for another product in the shop. /  CUSTOMER: Alright. I’ll take this laptop instead.
Q 7612 [radio] 12 What’s the problem?
 13290) A. The new flatmate talks too much.
 13291) B. The new flatmate never makes any effort to talk.
 13292) C. The new flatmate is messy and doesn’t purchase food.
  SITE FEEDBACK: FRIEND 1: How are you getting on with your new flatmate? /  FRIEND 2: Not great…at first, she seemed really nice and we had some good conversations. Then, I noticed she stopped making any effort in the flat. /  FRIEND 1: What do you mean? /  FRIEND 2: She’s really untidy. She leaves her bags, clothes and computers all over the living room. She never buys any food, and she eats all my food. /  FRIEND 1: Oh no. Have you spoken to her about it? /  FRIEND 2: No, I’m too embarrassed. /  FRIEND 1: You should really speak to her soon before it gets worse!
Q 7613 [radio] 13 What is she going to get for her father's birthday?
 13293) A. She's going to buy tickets to a concert.
 13294) B. She's going to get tickets to a football match.
 13295) C. She's going to organise a surprise birthday party.
  SITE FEEDBACK: FRIEND 1: It’s your dad’s birthday tomorrow, right? /  FRIEND 2: Yes, and I haven’t got him anything. I’m in trouble! /  FRIEND 1: Well... it’s not too late. You could get him tickets for a concert. /  FRIEND 2: He isn't really into music. /  FRIEND 1: So, what does your father like doing? /  FRIEND 2: He doesn't really like parties, or going out, but he loves football. /  FRIEND 1: There’s a football match tomorrow evening at the stadium. I heard there are still tickets left. Why don’t you buy tickets and go with him? /  FRIEND 2: That’s a great idea. Why didn’t I think about that? /  FRIEND 1: He’ll love it. The match starts at 7 pm. /  FRIEND 2: He’s working until 6 pm. /  FRIEND 1: That's perfect. Tell him you have a surprise for this birthday. Believe me, he’ll be happy to go to a football match after work!
Q 7614 [gaps] JULIE'S TRIP TO MEXICO /  On the first day, Julie spent most of her time on the 14 {1} . /  The purpose of the bus tour was to visit the 15 {2} in Yucatan. /  The Maya people had a strong understanding of 16 {3} . /  Julie thought the tacos she ate for lunch were very 17 {4} . /  Julie bought a 18 {5} that she found in an old store. /  Julie recommends that people should take 19 {6} to visit Mexico properly.
  {1} free text
  {2} free text
  {3} free text
  {4} free text
  {5} free text
  {6} free text
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Hello everyone, and you’re so welcome to my channel about travelling the world! Today, I’d like to speak about my trip to Mexico. In September, I arrived in Cancun for a little rest and relaxation. It was just wonderful. I spent the first day walking on the beach, drinking cocktails and looking for fish in the little rock pools. On the second day, I joined the travel group on a bus tour to Yucatan. In this region of Mexico, we saw the Mayan pyramids, which are extremely old. The Maya people understood astronomy and the movement of the solar system. Their pyramids were built in a way to allow the planets, moon and stars to be visible to people inside these buildings. So, that was amazing. The next day, we returned to Cancun. I went to the market, bought some fruit and vegetables, and after that, I had lunch with my friend Diego at a Mexican restaurant. He recommended tacos, which are corn shells filled with meat and a hot sauce. They were very spicy! I had to drink a lot of water. We went shopping, and I went into an old, dark store. To my surprise, I saw the most beautiful lamp, so I bought it. Unfortunately, I only stayed for four days in Mexico, which is a pity because it wasn’t enough time to see much. I recommend two weeks to really see the country! /  Feedback /  14 Correct answer: beach /  15 Correct answer: pyramids/Mayan pyramids /  16 Correct answer: astronomy /  17 Correct answer: spicy/hot /  18 Correct answer: lamp /  19 Correct answer: two/two weeks
Q 7615 [radio] 20 What was the reason Dr. Stevens enjoyed doing this scientific study?
 13296) A. She really loves working with young adults.
 13297) B. She loves following the process of a study.
 13298) C. She really likes animals.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: Hello there, dear listeners. Today we're joined by Dr. Emily Stevens, a prominent figure in the world of behavioral science. Dr. Stevens, thank you for joining us today. Please, we'd like to know about your recent study conducted at a university in Cambridge. Could you explain to us what it was about? /  DR. STEVENS: Absolutely... and thank you for having me. Well, I've been looking into the therapeutic effects of pets on human emotions, especially among young adults. I've always loved animals, so this study was really fun for me.
Q 7616 [radio] 21 Why were some students not returning to university in the second year?
 13299) A. They didn’t like the system of the university.
 13300) B. They missed hanging out with their friends.
 13301) C. They felt disconnected and alone.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: What made the university decide to sponsor this unique study? /  DR. STEVENS: The managers at the university were worried that many of their students – in fact, more than twenty percent – were leaving school after the first year. The main reason the students were leaving was because they felt lonely, didn't make new friends, and missed home. This was concerning for the school because if students didn't return in the second year, they could lose a lot of business, especially as this was a private school. That's why they agreed to pay for our study and experiment.
Q 7617 [radio] 22 Why did the university agree to invest in the ‘pet support’ experiment?
 13302) A. They were interested in science in general.
 13303) B. They wanted to gain prestige by investing in research.
 13304) C. They didn't want to lose business.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: What made the university decide to sponsor this unique study? /  DR. STEVENS: The managers at the university were worried that many of their students – in fact, more than twenty percent – were leaving school after the first year. The main reason the students were leaving was because they felt lonely, didn't make new friends, and missed home. This was concerning for the school because if students didn't return in the second year, they could lose a lot of business, especially as this was a private school. That's why they agreed to pay for our study and experiment.
Q 7618 [radio] 23 What is true about the experiment?
 13305) A. Students were given different pets during the school year.
 13306) B. Students were interviewed during the year in which they took care of an animal.
 13307) C. Students were given a new pet at the start of the second school year.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: Could you explain the details of your experiment? /  DR. STEVENS: Certainly. We introduced pets to all the first-year students at the start of the school year, and they had to take care of the animals from September until June. In this 'pet support' experiment, we aimed to see if having a little dog or cat would help students stay in college. If they returned for the second year, they were allowed to keep their pets. We divided the experiment into three parts: an interview at the beginning of the study to understand the well-being of the students, a second interview halfway through, and a final interview at the end.
Q 7620 [radio] 24 How did a sense of responsibility help students?
 13311) A. It helped them to study harder at school.
 13312) B. It helped them to make more efforts to make friends.
 13313) C. It helped them have a reason to return to school.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: That sounds intriguing. What were the results of the study? /  DR. STEVENS: The results were surprising. When we interviewed students at the end of the school year, ninety-eight percent of them had decided to continue their studies at the same school. They mentioned that having the responsibility of a dog or cat gave them a reason to come back. Overall, they felt more relaxed and happier and enjoyed school more during the year. We now realize that 'pet support' is successful. It helps people feel less lonely, more at ease in new situations, and having a pet gives them a sense of responsibility.
Q 7619 [radio] 25 What was the effect of a dog or cat on student life?
 13308) A. Most students felt better.
 13309) B. Most students achieved better academic results.
 13310) C. Most students still felt disconnected at school but wanted to keep their pets.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: That sounds intriguing. What were the results of the study? /  DR. STEVENS: The results were surprising. When we interviewed students at the end of the school year, ninety-eight percent of them had decided to continue their studies at the same school. They mentioned that having the responsibility of a dog or cat gave them a reason to come back. Overall, They felt more relaxed and happier and enjoyed school more during the year. We now realize that 'pet support' is successful. It helps people feel less lonely, more at ease in new situations, and having a pet gives them a sense of responsibility.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/health-problems-b1-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 7720 [radio] Nicole
 13650) A. headache
 13651) B. backache
 13652) C. flu
 13653) D. stomach bug
 13654) E. rash
 13655) F. fainting
 13656) G. cough
 13657) H. sunburn
 13658) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NICOLE: I don't take any medication for it. To my mind, the discomfort is an indication of a problem that needs to be fixed. But I do spend a lot of time doing yoga and the stretches that my osteopath has given me. Bit by bit, the muscles are easing, and I feel my spine straightening up. There's no quick fix, though.
Q 7721 [radio] James
 13659) A. headache
 13660) B. backache
 13661) C. flu
 13662) D. stomach bug
 13663) E. rash
 13664) F. fainting
 13665) G. cough
 13666) H. sunburn
 13667) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  JAMES: It came on quite suddenly during the evening. No real surprise as my girlfriend had been complaining of it the day before. Now it really hurts when I swallow, even when I speak. And my voice feels raspy and hoarse. I guess the glands are swollen. It helps when I eat ice cream. It numbs the pain, but only for a while, so unless I eat ice cream constantly, I'll just have to live with it. I expect it'll be gone in a day or two.
Q 7722 [radio] Brian
 13668) A. headache
 13669) B. backache
 13670) C. flu
 13671) D. stomach bug
 13672) E. rash
 13673) F. fainting
 13674) G. cough
 13675) H. sunburn
 13676) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  BRIAN: My friend said I was just making a big deal out of nothing, but that definitely wasn't the case! I had all the symptoms of a cold, you know, runny nose, cough, and so on, but also I had a headache. My whole body ached. And I was so tired I couldn't get out of bed. Even if someone had said there was one thousand dollars outside the doorstep for me if I just got up and collected it, I would have ignored them.
Q 7723 [radio] Chloe
 13677) A. headache
 13678) B. backache
 13679) C. flu
 13680) D. stomach bug
 13681) E. rash
 13682) F. fainting
 13683) G. cough
 13684) H. sunburn
 13685) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CHLOE: It happened after a wedding. I'm not sure if it was something in the food, or whether it spread by lots of people touching the same door handles, but I know quite a few guests came down with it. It wasn't very pleasant. First I threw up in the night, and then, well I won't go into details, but it was coming out at both ends, so to speak. I took some of those dehydration sachets and stayed at home. It only lasted a couple of days, thankfully.
Q 7724 [radio] Tony
 13686) A. headache
 13687) B. backache
 13688) C. flu
 13689) D. stomach bug
 13690) E. rash
 13691) F. fainting
 13692) G. cough
 13693) H. sunburn
 13694) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  TONY: I've never had anything like this before. I know a few people who have allergies and they break out if they eat nuts or use a certain skin cream or laundry detergent, but I never have problems like that. I haven't used anything like that lately, so I don't know why this patch on my arm is so red and swollen right now. I'm going to see the doctor about it, in case it's a symptom of something serious.
Q 7725 [radio] Louise
 13695) A. headache
 13696) B. backache
 13697) C. flu
 13698) D. stomach bug
 13699) E. rash
 13700) F. fainting
 13701) G. cough
 13702) H. sunburn
 13703) I. sore throat
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  LOUISE: I'm not sure why it happened. One minute the vet was explaining my cat's illness, and then I suddenly began to feel light-headed. Before I had the chance to find a place to sit down, I had toppled over. I regained consciousness on the floor. I have no idea how long I was out for, probably just a few seconds. The vet gave me some water and allowed me to sit for a while in the clinic until I felt better. I guess it was the shock that caused it.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/are-exams-necessary-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 7731 [radio] Still takes exams as a way to measure progress in his/her new interests.
 22166) Olivia
 22167) Ava
 22194) Noah
 22195) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OLIVIA: When I was in school, I was always at the top of the class and aced my exams. My teachers loved me, and my classmates' parents wished their kids were more like me. My classmates hated me, of course. That didn't bother me, to be honest. Doing well in exams gave me confidence and a sense of pride, although I confess, I also felt I was better than everyone else, which I now realize is not true. I simply have a better aptitude for that way of learning, I suppose. Now, I work with people whose grades aren't even close to mine, and they do better than me in the office. You would think that would make me upset, but that's not true. Although I haven't seen any real financial benefit from taking exams, they have made me a disciplined person who values knowledge, and I still take them now for the hobbies I do in my spare time. I think they are a valuable way to reflect on my progress and how well I'm doing.
Q 7727 [radio] Doing well in exams doesn't give you useful workplace skills.
 22170) Olivia
 22171) Ava
 22172) Noah
 22173) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NOAH: It's been five years since I sat my university finals, and I still have nightmares about turning over a test paper and not knowing the answers. Uhh, it was the most stressful experience of my life. After that, I promised I'd never do an exam again, and I haven't. I'll admit that passing those exams helped me land a decent job, but I have never needed to use any of the information I learned while working here. Employers seem to think that by hiring someone with a high-level qualification, they are getting a better worker, but mmm… that's not strictly true either. Some people at my workplace have amazing grades in their postgraduate qualifications, but they are no better at their job than anyone else. Actually, some of them are awful to work with. People can be trained to do most jobs, and the skills you need, like having good people skills, being creative, and being able to respond effectively to different situations, just can't be tested in exams.
Q 7729 [radio] Exams can test many different skills if they are well-designed.
 22174) Olivia
 22175) Ava
 22176) Noah
 22177) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  AVA: Many people think that exams don't test anything except your ability to... take exams – you know, how well you can memorise and recall information. They think that students would learn better by doing projects based on their own interests, where what they learn isn't limited by an exam syllabus. Well, that method might work for a few people, but in my view, most people don't have enough motivation, whereas an exam serves as a clear objective for students. Plus, I personally think exams test all sorts of skills besides just your ability to remember stuff, like your thought processes, analytical ability, logic, intelligence and your application of knowledge. Honestly, I wouldn't want anyone in a powerful position of responsibility who hadn't proved they had those skills, so in that sense, exams are essential. Of course, the design of the paper is critical. A multiple-choice paper isn't going to test those sorts of things.
Q 7730 [radio] Doing exams has had an impact on his/her personality.
 22178) Olivia
 22179) Ava
 22180) Noah
 22181) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OLIVIA: When I was in school, I was always at the top of the class and aced my exams. My teachers loved me, and my classmates' parents wished their kids were more like me. My classmates hated me, of course. That didn't bother me, to be honest. Doing well in exams gave me confidence and a sense of pride, although I confess, I also felt I was better than everyone else, which I now realize is not true. I simply have a better aptitude for that way of learning, I suppose. Now, I work with people whose grades aren't even close to mine, and they do better than me in the office. You would think that would make me upset, but that's not true. Although I haven't seen any real financial benefit from taking exams, they have made me a disciplined person who values knowledge, and I still take them now for the hobbies I do in my spare time. I think they are a valuable way to reflect on my progress and how well I'm doing.
Q 7732 [radio] People would learn better if they could study what they liked.
 22182) Olivia
 22183) Ava
 22184) Noah
 22185) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: None of the speakers talks about this.
Q 7728 [radio] Without exams, people would not be motivated to learn.
 22186) Olivia
 22187) Ava
 22188) Noah
 22189) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  AVA: Many people think that exams don't test anything except your ability to... take exams – you know, how well you can memorise and recall information. They think that students would learn better by doing projects based on their own interests, where what they learn isn't limited by an exam syllabus. Well, that method might work for a few people, but in my view, most people don't have enough motivation, whereas an exam serves as a clear objective for students. Plus, I personally think exams test all sorts of skills besides just your ability to remember stuff, like your thought processes, analytical ability, logic, intelligence and your application of knowledge. Honestly, I wouldn't want anyone in a powerful position of responsibility who hadn't proved they had those skills, so in that sense, exams are essential. Of course, the design of the paper is critical. A multiple-choice paper isn't going to test those sorts of things.
Q 7726 [radio] Passing an exam was necessary to get his/her current job.
 22190) Olivia
 22191) Ava
 22192) Noah
 22193) No one
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NOAH: It's been five years since I sat my university finals, and I still have nightmares about turning over a test paper and not knowing the answers. Uhh, it was the most stressful experience of my life. After that, I promised I'd never do an exam again, and I haven't. I'll admit that passing those exams helped me land a decent job, but I have never needed to use any of the information I learned while working here. Employers seem to think that by hiring someone with a high-level qualification, they are getting a better worker, but mmm… that's not strictly true either. Some people at my workplace have amazing grades in their postgraduate qualifications, but they are no better at their job than anyone else. Actually, some of them are awful to work with. People can be trained to do most jobs, and the skills you need, like having good people skills, being creative, and being able to respond effectively to different situations, just can't be tested in exams.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/what-are-your-hobbies-a2-listening-test/
Q 8549 [checkbox] What are Hanna's hobbies?
 14984) A. Hiking
 14985) B. Painting
 14986) C. Watching films
 14987) D. Playing in a band
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I like to go to the mountains with my friend Becky. She loves to walk, but I can't do that because of my bad knees. So, while she goes hiking, I paint. I did some lovely pictures of a lake last month. They are on Becky's wall now. I also love to watch films. I watch one every day. Yesterday, I saw one about some friends who started a band. They played their music around the world and became really famous. It was great!
Q 8550 [checkbox] What are Kate's hobbies?
 14988) A. Playing a computer game
 14989) B. Gardening
 14990) C. Cooking
 14991) D. Collecting
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I spend most of my free time playing Island Life. It's a computer game where you are on an island, and your mission is to survive. You need to grow plants for food and collect wood in the forest so that you can cook and build a home. But when bad weather or dangerous animals appear, you can die, and then you have to start again. It's really cool! I also like to collect coins. I have lots of old coins. Some of them are rare. I'm always looking for more coins in shops and on the Internet.
Q 8551 [checkbox] What are Will's hobbies?
 14992) A. Playing in a band
 14993) B. Gardening
 14994) C. Partying
 14995) D. Reading
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  My friend Mike is the singer in a band, and last year he asked me to join them because I play drums. So, I did it, and now we play together. It's fun! We do a few shows every week, and we are sometimes on the radio. Last week we played at a festival in a beautiful garden with lots of pretty flowers. It was great! My friends in the band love partying and they often go out after a show, but I prefer to go to bed with a good book. I read two or three every week.
Q 8552 [checkbox] What are Simon's hobbies?
 14996) A. Gardening
 14997) B. Hiking
 14998) C. Cooking
 14999) D. Partying
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Well, my friend Charlie grows vegetables in his garden. I'd like to do that too, but I live in a flat and don't have a garden. But I love going for long walks in the countryside. I go for miles and miles, and I often come home with something like mushrooms, nuts or fruit. Then Charlie and I put everything in the kitchen, and I cook dinner with it. I love preparing food in new ways. Maybe one day, I will invite some friends for a party and will cook for them.
Q 8553 [checkbox] What are Patty's hobbies?
 15000) A. Playing in a band
 15001) B. Watching films
 15002) C. Partying
 15003) D. Collecting
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  My neighbour plays in a band, and she practices her guitar every evening really loudly. So I can't have a quiet evening at home watching a film. So I often go out. My friends are always having parties, and I go too. I meet new people, and they invite me to more parties! It's fun, and it's also a good way to collect more cups. I have about 200 now. I like funny ones and ugly ones. It's fun to see the different cups in people's kitchens. You can learn about people from their cups, and sometimes they give me one to take home.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/new-years-resolutions-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 8554 [radio] Who is going to go swimming every day?
 15004) A. John
 15005) B. Sally
 15006) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: I put on weight last year when I had my kids, and I want to lose it. But I don't want to stop eating unhealthy food. I like cakes and chocolate too much! So, I'm going to join a gym. It's expensive, but if I pay for it, I will go. There are parent and baby swim classes every morning, and I want to go to all of those. I hope I can meet people there. I don't have many friends now because I quit my job and I'm with the kids all day. I'd love to take a class at the college, like photography, but I can't now. The kids need me. Maybe I will next year.
Q 8555 [radio] Who is going to tidy the garden?
 15007) A. John
 15008) B. Sally
 15009) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  JOHN: Well, last year, I decided to do more exercise, so I started cycling. But I fell off after one month and hurt my back. So I'm not going to do that again! But I want to lose weight, so I'm going to stop eating burgers and eat more vegetables. I'm also going to go swimming at the sports center twice a week. My wife swims every day, but I don't want to do that because I want to work in the garden too. That will take a lot of time and keep me fit. I also want to spend more time with my friends. My kids are older now, so they don't need me at home.
Q 8556 [radio] Who is going to try to make new friends?
 15010) A. John
 15011) B. Sally
 15012) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Transcription /  SALLY: I put on weight last year when I had my kids, and I want to lose it. But I don't want to stop eating unhealthy food. I like cakes and chocolate too much! So, I'm going to join a gym. It's expensive, but if I pay for it, I will go. There are parent and baby swim classes every morning, and I want to go to all of those. I hope I can meet people there. I don't have many friends now because I quit my job and I'm with the kids all day. I'd love to take a class at the college, like photography, but I can't now. The kids need me. Maybe I will next year.
Q 8557 [radio] Who is going to cycle more often?
 15013) A. John
 15014) B. Sally
 15015) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  DARREN: I got a new bike for Christmas, and I plan to use it. I want to go a hundred miles each week on it. I also want to join the photography classes at the local college. Then I can take some great pictures when I'm out on my rides. And I'm going to spend more time with my kids. Last year, I spent a lot of time driving to work, so I didn't see them in the mornings or evenings. But now I have a new job and I work from home, so I can be here for them. We can do fun things like making cakes and playing in the garden. It will be fun!
Q 8558 [radio] Who is going to start photography classes?
 15016) A. John
 15017) B. Sally
 15018) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  DARREN: I got a new bike for Christmas, and I plan to use it. I want to go a hundred miles each week on it. I also want to join the photography classes at the local college. Then I can take some great pictures when I'm out on my rides. And I'm going to spend more time with my kids. Last year, I spent a lot of time driving to work, so I didn't see them in the mornings or evenings. But now I have a new job and I work from home, so I can be here for them. We can do fun things like making cakes and playing in the garden. It will be fun!
Q 8559 [radio] Who is going to eat more healthily?
 15019) A. John
 15020) B. Sally
 15021) C. Darren
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  JOHN: Well, last year, I decided to do more exercise, so I started cycling. But I fell off after one month and hurt my back. So I'm not going to do that again! But I want to lose weight, so I'm going to stop eating burgers and eat more vegetables. I'm also going to go swimming at the sports center twice a week. My wife swims every day, but I don't want to do that because I want to work in the garden too. That will take a lot of time and keep me fit. I also want to spend more time with my friends. My kids are older now, so they don't need me at home.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/have-you-ever-experiences-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 8560 [radio] John was on television when…
 15022) A. he was playing football.
 15023) B. he was watching a match.
 15024) C. he was cheering for his dad.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: Hey, John, do you want to try this quiz? It's called Have You Ever. I ask you some questions about your life. You get a point for every experience you have had. /  JOHN: Er yes okay. That sounds fun. /  SALLY: Right, so question one. Have you ever been on television? /  JOHN: Yes, actually, I have. /  SALLY: Really? When was that? /  JOHN: It was last year. I was watching a big football game with my dad. The game was on TV, and the camera showed us in the crowd. /  SALLY: What were you doing when you were on TV? /  JOHN: We were cheering after a goal.
Q 8561 [radio] What happened when John met Nicholas Cage?
 15026) A. Nicholas Cage was friendly but didn't let John take a photo.
 15027) B. John couldn't take a photo because there were too many people.
 15028) C. John took a photo with Nicholas Cage, who was friendly.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: Great! So, one point for you! Next question. Have you ever met a famous person? /  JOHN: Yes, I have! I've met Nicholas Cage. /  SALLY: The actor? /  JOHN: Yes! It was about three years ago. I was in the shopping mall, and there was a big crowd of people. They were all taking photos. /  SALLY: Did you get a photo too? /  JOHN: Well, I had to wait a long time because many people wanted to take a picture. But I finally got a selfie with him. He was very friendly. I'll show it to you.
Q 8562 [radio] What is NOT true about John and his broken bone?
 15030) A. He fell on some stones.
 15031) B. He broke his arm.
 15032) C. He broke it while riding his bike.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: Wow! Lucky you! I've never met anyone famous. So, two points. Next question. Have you ever broken a bone? /  JOHN: Yes, I have. But it was a long time ago. I was about 7. /  SALLY: What did you break? /  JOHN: My arm. /  SALLY: How did you break it? /  JOHN: I was on holiday with my parents. I was running down a hill, and I fell onto some stones.
Q 8563 [radio] Which sentence is true about John?
 15034) A. He has climbed Snowdon in the rain.
 15035) B. He has climbed Scottish mountains in the rain.
 15036) C. He has climbed an English mountain.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: Ouch! But that's three points for you. The next question is: have you ever climbed a mountain? /  JOHN: Yes, I've climbed several mountains. /  SALLY: Really? Which one was your favourite? /  JOHN: Mmm, I think my favourite was Snowdon in Wales. It was warm and sunny when we climbed it. That's why I liked it. The other mountains were in Scotland, and we climbed them in the rain. I want to climb the tallest mountain in England next. I haven't climbed any English mountains. /  SALLY: Did it take a long time? /  JOHN: It took about six hours to go up and down.
Q 8564 [radio] Which sentence is true about John?
 15038) A. He sent Sally a Valentine's Day card earlier this year.
 15039) B. He has never sent a Valentine's Day card to Sally.
 15040) C. He sent a Valentine's Day card last year, but not this year.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SALLY: Well done! So, last question. Have you ever sent a Valentine's Day card? /  JOHN: Mm, yes, I have. /  SALLY: Really? When? Last February? /  JOHN: Yes, I sent one earlier this year and one last year too. /  SALLY: Who did you send it to? /  JOHN: I'm not telling you! /  SALLY: Ah! Well, I've never sent one, and I've never received one either. /  JOHN: Poor you! I'll send you one next year!

=== PAGE /listening/b1/living-with-your-ex-after-a-break-up-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 8566 [radio] Maria and Adam signed a rental agreement soon after breaking up.
 15044) A. True
 15045) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I was living in a shared apartment with my boyfriend, Adam, and another couple, Sarah and Luke, who were our friends. We'd just signed a rental agreement to stay there for another six months when we broke up.
Q 8565 [radio] Maria ended the relationship with Adam.
 15042) A. True
 15043) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  It was my decision to end it. I just couldn't see us staying together long-term. He took it quite badly. In an ideal world, I would have moved out to give him some space, but we just couldn't afford it.
Q 8567 [radio] Maria and Adam shared the same bedroom while living together.
 15046) A. True
 15047) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Fortunately, there was a little storage room in the apartment, and I moved into that, giving him the master bedroom that we had shared before. There wasn't enough space in it for all my clothes – I have quite a lot of them – so I had to keep going in his room, but I did my best to give him some space. It wasn't easy, for sure.
Q 8568 [radio] Adam hoped that their relationship would start again.
 15048) A. True
 15049) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I knew he hoped that we would get back together,...
Q 8569 [radio] Maria regrets turning to Adam for comfort.
 15050) A. True
 15051) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I knew he hoped that we would get back together, and one time, after I'd had a rough day at school and was really stressed, I turned to him for comfort. It was just so easy to slip back into old habits, and he was there, and I knew he could give me the support I wanted. But I shouldn't have done that. It gave him false hopes, and things were tense for a while after that.
Q 8570 [radio] Maria brought a man she met at college back to the shared apartment.
 15052) A. True
 15053) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  We had agreed that we wouldn't date anyone else while we were living in the same apartment, and I kept my word, but it didn't quite go according to plan. You see, there was a guy at school who I got to know, and there was an instant attraction between us. I was honest with him. I told him I was living with my ex and that it wouldn't be possible to take things further for a while, and he was fine with that. But of course, we flirted, and we often met up for coffee, and then I told Sarah, the friend who we were living with, about him.
Q 8571 [radio] Adam brought a woman he met at a nightclub back to the shared apartment.
 15054) A. True
 15055) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  And one day, we were gossiping about him in the kitchen, and she was asking me all these questions, and I was chatting away, and then Adam walked in. He'd been in the living room and overheard every word. I hadn't realized he was there. It was very awkward. He didn't speak to me for a while after that, and that weekend, he went out partying and brought a girl home. I'm sure he didn't have any feelings for her. It was just him showing he didn't care or pretending to show it.
Q 8572 [radio] After breaking up, Maria and Adam still hung out with their roommates.
 15056) A. True
 15057) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  After that, I kept out of his way as much as possible. When we were together, I was distant and polite. And he avoided me, too. It wasn't easy, for sure, trying to cook and do the laundry when the other one wasn't in the room. It was hard on our friends, too. Gone were the days when we'd hang out in the living room watching TV with takeout and a bottle of wine, playing board games together, or watching a movie.
Q 8573 [radio] Maria moved out before the agreed rental period ended.
 15058) A. True
 15059) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  The apartment was very tense. I stayed until the six months was up and then moved out.
Q 8574 [radio] Maria's relationship with Adam and her friends has improved since she moved out.
 15060) A. True
 15061) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Really, I should have moved out sooner, as it really hurt my friendship with Sarah – or with all of them, really. She hasn't reached out to me since then. And I'm sure Adam was glad to see me go. I guess it was natural that we couldn't just end things immediately after being close, but while we were living together, neither of us could move on.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/shopping-for-clothes-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 8887 [radio] Doris, the customer, wants to buy a jacket.
 15717) A. True
 15718) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Good morning! How can I help you today? /  CUSTOMER: Hi, I'm looking for a jacket for spring.
Q 8890 [radio] She tries on a blue jacket in a large size.
 15723) A. True
 15724) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Of course. We have a range over here. What size are you? /  CUSTOMER: Can I try on a medium size in this blue jacket? /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Certainly, the fitting room is just over there. /  CUSTOMER: It's too small. Do you have it in a large? /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Let me check for you... I'm afraid we don't have a large in blue, but we have it in black.
Q 8888 [radio] She finally takes a black jacket.
 15719) A. True
 15720) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CUSTOMER: Can I try the black one then, please? /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Absolutely. Here you are. /  CUSTOMER: This one fits well. I'll take this one. How much is it?
Q 8891 [radio] She doesn't like the grey cardigan.
 15725) A. True
 15726) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SHOP ASSISTANT: It's £49.99. We offer a 15% discount if you buy a second piece of clothing. /  CUSTOMER: That's nice. I'll take a look at those cardigans... /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Of course. /  CUSTOMER: I like the grey cardigan, but I can't find my size. Don't you have it in a medium?
Q 8889 [radio] She tries on two medium cardigans.
 15721) A. True
 15722) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SHOP ASSISTANT: I'm afraid we don't. We only have a medium in brown or black. /  CUSTOMER: I'll try them on. /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Sure.
Q 8892 [radio] She finally takes the black cardigan.
 15727) A. True
 15728) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CUSTOMER: I like them both, but I'll take the brown one. I wanted the black one, but I've already taken a black jacket.
Q 8893 [radio] She pays £89.98 for the jacket and the cardigan.
 15729) A. True
 15730) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Yes... How would you like to pay? /  CUSTOMER: Can I pay in cash? /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Of course. /  SHOP ASSISTANT: How much is it? /  SHOP ASSISTANT: It's £89.98. With the 15% discount, that comes to £76. /  CUSTOMER: Great. Here's one hundred. /  SHOP ASSISTANT: Thank you. And here's £24 in change, your receipt, and your items. Thank you for shopping with us! /  CUSTOMER: Thank you! Have a great day! /  SHOP ASSISTANT: You too, take care!

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/air-travel-experiences-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 9401 [radio] Who had their seat upgraded?
 16479) A. Emily
 16480) B. Michael
 16481) C. Aiden
 16482) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  AIDEN: I was thirteen years old when I took a flight to London with my mum. Neither of us had been on a plane before, so we were excited but nervous. We knew that we had to get to the airport three hours before our flight took off, but what we thought was the check-in time was actually the departure time, so when we arrived at the airport, the flight was already boarding! The lady told us not to worry; we wouldn't miss our flight. But there were only two seats left, one in the middle and one at the back. We were so disappointed. I didn't want to sit away from my mum because I was nervous about flying, and she wanted to sit with me because she doesn't speak English. The lady must have seen my face because she said, 'Don't worry, I can sit you together.' She printed out our boarding cards and we ran to the gate. When we boarded, we turned towards economy class and the flight attendant told us we were going the wrong way. The lady at the desk had put us in business class so that we could sit together! It was so comfortable, and we got all kinds of extra treats! I only wish I'd realised sooner, and had thanked that lady properly.
Q 9402 [radio] Who boarded their plane before any other passengers?
 16483) A. Emily
 16484) B. Michael
 16485) C. Aiden
 16486) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  EMILY: When I was 21, I took a flight to the US to spend some time with my boyfriend. When my dad dropped me off at the airport, he went into full parenting mode, fussing and worrying over me. He told the man at check-in that I'd only been on short flights before. The crew member told him not to worry and that I'd be well looked after, and he told me to wait on some chairs near security. I did so, and a bit later, I was escorted onto the plane in a car. I was the first on the plane and I saw that there was a colouring pack on my seat, which I thought was a bit odd. I was about to ask a cabin crew member about it, but they were busy with the other passengers who were all queuing and boarding after being cramped on a coach. A bit later, I was asked if I wanted to go up to the cockpit to see the pilot and I did. It was there that the captain asked me how old I was. He got a bit of a surprise when I told him. That's when I realised that my dad had made them think I needed special treatment as a minor. It was hilarious!
Q 9403 [radio] Who was injured while on their flight?
 16487) A. Emily
 16488) B. Michael
 16489) C. Aiden
 16490) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: None of the speakers says anything about this.
Q 9404 [radio] Who arrived late for their flight?
 16491) A. Emily
 16492) B. Michael
 16493) C. Aiden
 16494) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  AIDEN: I was thirteen years old when I took a flight to London with my mum. Neither of us had been on a plane before, so we were excited but nervous. We knew that we had to get to the airport three hours before our flight took off, but what we thought was the check-in time was actually the departure time, so when we arrived at the airport, the flight was already boarding! The lady told us not to worry; we wouldn't miss our flight. But there were only two seats left, one in the middle and one at the back. We were so disappointed. I didn't want to sit away from my mum because I was nervous about flying, and she wanted to sit with me because she doesn't speak English. The lady must have seen my face because she said, 'Don't worry, I can sit you together.' She printed out our boarding cards and we ran to the gate. When we boarded, we turned towards economy class and the flight attendant told us we were going the wrong way. The lady at the desk had put us in business class so that we could sit together! It was so comfortable, and we got all kinds of extra treats! I only wish I'd realised sooner, and had thanked that lady properly.
Q 9405 [radio] Who was mistakenly believed to be a child?
 16495) A. Emily
 16496) B. Michael
 16497) C. Aiden
 16498) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  EMILY: When I was 21, I took a flight to the US to spend some time with my boyfriend. When my dad dropped me off at the airport, he went into full parenting mode, fussing and worrying over me. He told the man at check-in that I'd only been on short flights before. The crew member told him not to worry and that I'd be well looked after, and he told me to wait on some chairs near security. I did so, and a bit later, I was escorted onto the plane in a car. I was the first on the plane and I saw that there was a colouring pack on my seat, which I thought was a bit odd. I was about to ask a cabin crew member about it, but they were busy with the other passengers who were all queuing and boarding after being cramped on a coach. A bit later, I was asked if I wanted to go up to the cockpit to see the pilot and I did. It was there that the captain asked me how old I was. He got a bit of a surprise when I told him. That's when I realised that my dad had made them think I needed special treatment as a minor. It was hilarious!
Q 9406 [radio] Who was confused by an event he or she witnessed?
 16499) A. Emily
 16500) B. Michael
 16501) C. Aiden
 16502) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MICHAEL: I was on a flight from India to the USA with a stopover in Dubai. I was just boarding when I saw someone I recognized, but he was in a wheelchair, which was odd because I had always known him as a fit and healthy guy. It was curious, but I didn't know him well, so I decided not to get into conversation with him. He might not be in the mood for small talk if he was under the weather. I didn't see him during the flight; I think he was in first class. At Dubai, I saw him again being wheeled through security while I was queuing up, and then I saw him again after we arrived, and that's when he noticed me and gave me a cheery wave. It was about a week later when I saw him in the park. I couldn't believe my eyes. He was jogging! I couldn't understand how he'd made such a fast recovery. Anyway, he spotted me and jogged up to me, and we got chatting. It turned out that there was no injury at all. He'd just bought himself a fake doctor's certificate so that he could pass as a wheelchair passenger and get special treatment. Apparently, it's common practice!
Q 9407 [radio] Whose flight was delayed?
 16503) A. Emily
 16504) B. Michael
 16505) C. Aiden
 16506) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: None of the speakers says anything about this.
Q 9408 [radio] Who wasn't traveling alone?
 16507) A. Emily
 16508) B. Michael
 16509) C. Aiden
 16510) D. None of the speakers
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  AIDEN: I was thirteen years old when I took a flight to London with my mum. Neither of us had been on a plane before, so we were excited but nervous. We knew that we had to get to the airport three hours before our flight took off, but what we thought was the check-in time was actually the departure time, so when we arrived at the airport, the flight was already boarding! The lady told us not to worry; we wouldn't miss our flight. But there were only two seats left, one in the middle and one at the back. We were so disappointed. I didn't want to sit away from my mum because I was nervous about flying, and she wanted to sit with me because she doesn't speak English. The lady must have seen my face because she said, 'Don't worry, I can sit you together.' She printed out our boarding cards and we ran to the gate. When we boarded, we turned towards economy class and the flight attendant told us we were going the wrong way. The lady at the desk had put us in business class so that we could sit together! It was so comfortable, and we got all kinds of extra treats! I only wish I'd realised sooner, and had thanked that lady properly.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/how-do-you-keep-fit-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 9523 [radio] What does Rebecca think about joining a gym?
 16855) A. It's a waste of money.
 16856) B. It motivates her to exercise.
 16857) C. It doesn't provide enough variety for her.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  REBECCA: This year, I decided that my New Year's resolution would be to exercise more. So, like thousands of others around the country, I joined a gym. My friends warned me that it was wasting my money and that I would stop going within a month, but I hate wasting money, so I was determined not to let that happen. Knowing that I'd paid out for it, I was going to use it. Sure, I got bored of using the gym equipment and the swimming pool within a few weeks, but then I saw there were different classes on, like yoga and aerobics and other things I hadn't heard of, so I gave them a go, too. I've met lots of people at the gym now, and that's helped. I've never been one to exercise by myself, and none of my other friends are into any sports, and I could never persuade them to come for a run with me. But now, if I want to socialise, I'll meet someone for a jog or a swim. That's been a real benefit.
Q 9524 [radio] What is Rebecca's advice about friends and exercise?
 16858) A. Make friends with people who like exercise.
 16859) B. Encourage your friends to exercise with you.
 16860) C. Don't be embarrassed about exercising alone.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  REBECCA: This year, I decided that my New Year's resolution would be to exercise more. So, like thousands of others around the country, I joined a gym. My friends warned me that it was wasting my money and that I would stop going within a month, but I hate wasting money, so I was determined not to let that happen. Knowing that I'd paid out for it, I was going to use it. Sure, I got bored of using the gym equipment and the swimming pool within a few weeks, but then I saw there were different classes on, like yoga and aerobics and other things I hadn't heard of, so I gave them a go, too. I've met lots of people at the gym now, and that's helped. I've never been one to exercise by myself, and none of my other friends are into any sports, and I could never persuade them to come for a run with me. But now, if I want to socialise, I'll meet someone for a jog or a swim. That's been a real benefit.
Q 9525 [radio] What caused Jeff to start exercising?
 16861) A. A new electric bike.
 16862) B. A new girlfriend.
 16863) C. A lack of money.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  JEFF: I've never been active, have always hated sports of any kind, and always avoided getting out of an armchair whenever possible. It was when my wife left me that I started getting fitter. You're probably thinking I wanted to get fit so I could look good and attract a new partner, but that wasn't it at all. Basically, when she moved out, I had to pay all the bills myself, and I was broke. When my car broke down, I couldn't afford to fix it. I didn't even have enough to pay for a bus or one of those electric bikes. So I had to start walking to work and to the shops instead of driving. Believe me, it wasn't one of those moments when I loved the fresh air and the sunrise and the bird song and everything. I hated it, the rain, the cold, the traffic noise. But then a friend said I was looking good, and I realised that, yeah, my trousers were looser, and the walks were getting easier. So I kept doing it, sold the car so I wouldn't be tempted to go back to my old ways, and made walking part of my life. That's all I do. After walking for an hour and a half every day, there's no way I'm going jogging or playing football or anything like that!
Q 9526 [radio] Since exercising more regularly, Jeff has…
 16864) A. started appreciating nature more.
 16865) B. included exercise in his everyday routine.
 16866) C. taken up other sports too.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  JEFF: I've never been active, have always hated sports of any kind, and always avoided getting out of an armchair whenever possible. It was when my wife left me that I started getting fitter. You're probably thinking I wanted to get fit so I could look good and attract a new partner, but that wasn't it at all. Basically, when she moved out, I had to pay all the bills myself, and I was broke. When my car broke down, I couldn't afford to fix it. I didn't even have enough to pay for a bus or one of those electric bikes. So I had to start walking to work and to the shops instead of driving. Believe me, it wasn't one of those moments when I loved the fresh air and the sunrise and the bird song and everything. I hated it, the rain, the cold, the traffic noise. But then a friend said I was looking good, and I realised that, yeah, my trousers were looser, and the walks were getting easier. So I kept doing it, sold the car so I wouldn't be tempted to go back to my old ways, and made walking part of my life. That's all I do. After walking for an hour and a half every day, there's no way I'm going jogging or playing football or anything like that!
Q 9527 [radio] As a young man, Leo kept fit because…
 16867) A. he was always worried about his health.
 16868) B. he was a member of various sports teams.
 16869) C. he had a generally active lifestyle.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  LEO: Back when I was at school and college, I never really thought about keeping fit. I just was. I guess it was just what I did. I cycled here and there and played basketball and soccer because all my buddies were doing that. Then we'd go dancing at a nightclub on the weekend. I was never particularly good at sports or anything; I never made the team, nor did I particularly want to, what with all that extra training. Now I've left college, and boy, I'm putting on weight. Sitting in an office or in a traffic jam all day is not good for the waistline! I recently suggested to some of the people from work that we get together and play some sports together, and they were totally up for it. But although we have tried basketball a few times, they tend to prefer golf, which isn't very energetic. Then afterwards, they want to go out for a meal, which hasn't helped. I think I'm going to have to take up running or something else I can do myself if I really want to improve my fitness.
Q 9528 [radio] Leo has found that exercising with other people has…
 16870) A. had little impact on his fitness level.
 16871) B. introduced him to several new sports.
 16872) C. enabled him to return to his past fitness level.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  LEO: Back when I was at school and college, I never really thought about keeping fit. I just was. I guess it was just what I did. I cycled here and there and played basketball and soccer because all my buddies were doing that. Then we'd go dancing at a nightclub on the weekend. I was never particularly good at sports or anything; I never made the team, nor did I particularly want to, what with all that extra training. Now I've left college, and boy, I'm putting on weight. Sitting in an office or in a traffic jam all day is not good for the waistline! I recently suggested to some of the people from work that we get together and play some sports together, and they were totally up for it. But although we have tried basketball a few times, they tend to prefer golf, which isn't very energetic. Then afterwards, they want to go out for a meal, which hasn't helped. I think I'm going to have to take up running or something else I can do myself if I really want to improve my fitness.

=== PAGE /exams/b2-first/b2-first-fce-exam-1-listening/
Q 9529 [radio] You hear a woman speaking about her career. /  She thinks her experience in the financial field...
 16873) A. was rewarding.
 16874) B. was a waste of time.
 16875) C. has been helpful.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I've had a pretty long career, I suppose. I started pretty young and worked in finance for about twenty-five years. I had quite a stressful experience in the bank, especially at the end when I was working with very demanding customers. I experienced burnout and lots of anxiety and frustration. I finally decided to quit. It was the best decision I ever made, and I must say that all my previous experience came in quite handy when I finally had time to create my own cake shop, which I'd always dreamed about. I'm finally a happy worker now. It's so much fun, and a lot less stressful, and the best thing is, I get to eat what I make!
Q 9530 [radio] You hear two people talking about the local bank. /  The man says the bank should...
 16876) A. have better deposit facilities outside of banking hours.
 16877) B. hire more people to help customers.
 16878) C. provide equipment in the bank to deposit checks.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  WOMAN: Have you just got back from the bank, Oliver? /  MAN: Yes, I'm late because there was a massive queue! /  WOMAN: Why don't you just do your banking online? /  MAN: I usually do, but I had to deposit a check….but never again! I waited for two hours to deposit a check for 20 pounds. /  WOMAN: Why did it take so long? /  MAN: The place was full of people, and they only had one customer service rep serving a whole crowd of people. /  WOMAN: I'd feel sorry for the banker who had to serve everyone. /  MAN: I just don't understand why they keep only one person at the desk! /  WOMAN: Well, it is the bank, so they're probably trying to save a few pounds. That's my guess. /  MAN: Yes, but seriously, everyone in the bank was furious. They'd really need to set up something outside the bank to drop in checks anytime. /  WOMAN: Yes, I saw that's what they do in the US, and it's very convenient.
Q 9531 [radio] You hear a musician speaking about his work. /  What has inspired him the most?
 16879) A. Nature and wildlife.
 16880) B. City life.
 16881) C. A life event.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I've played music all my life, ever since I could pick up a guitar, and I started writing music pretty young, too. At first, I was really inspired by nature as I grew up beside the forest. It was a great childhood, really, living among the flowers and trees and wild animals. Things got a lot harder when I got into my teens because my sister passed away. She was a talented singer and my best friend, so her memory and music inspire me the most when I write songs. She's always right beside me. Now, I live in the city, and a bunch of my songs are about problems in the city – like how busy it gets, the constant noise, and how you can feel alone even when you're surrounded by people. But even with all that, I try to keep my music light and fun. I want to make tunes that lift people up and spread a bit of joy.
Q 9532 [radio] You hear a person leaving a message at the doctor's office.  /  What's his problem?
 16882) A. They can't go to the hospital.
 16883) B. His daughter is worse.
 16884) C. His wife is sick.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Hello, this is Alan Williams, leaving a message for Dr. Byrne. I realize you're probably busy, but I really need to come by the clinic this afternoon if possible. It's for my daughter Shauna. She was feeling sick late last night, and I would've taken her to the hospital, but my wife said maybe she just needed some rest, so in the end, we decided to wait. Well, she isn't feeling better today, quite the opposite. I'm worried sick at this point because she's very sleepy and won't eat a thing. We'd really rather come to you than go to the hospital, what with the long waiting times. So, if you can see us as soon as possible, I'd be grateful for a callback. Oh, it's Alan. Alan Williams. Thanks.
Q 9533 [radio] You hear two people talking about a new coffee shop.  /  How does the man feel about it?
 16885) A. It's too crowded.
 16886) B. It's disappointing.
 16887) C. The coffee is bad and expensive.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  WOMAN: Have you been to the new coffee place, Jason? /  MAN: Yes, I have, actually. I just went there for breakfast this morning. /  WOMAN: What do you think of the place? /  MAN: Well, I was impressed when I got in. The decoration and the music make the place so cosy that you're just drawn to it. /  WOMAN: Yes, and what about the location? Right in the heart of the city! /  MAN: Yeah. That's why I was surprised. I mean, with such a great location and decor, I couldn't get my head around why it wasn't more crowded. So few customers...I thought it was weird. /  WOMAN: That's strange… I wonder why it was so empty. /  MAN: I soon found out why when I tasted the coffee. It was far from what I was expecting. /  WOMAN: That's a pity since it's a coffee shop! /  MAN: I know! The food and drinks are affordable, but I'd still prefer to pay more for a decent cup of coffee and something good to eat.
Q 9534 [radio] You hear two people talking about an actor in a movie. /  What does the woman think about him?
 16888) A. He's an good writer, actor and director.
 16889) B. He's a good actor, but she doesn't especially like him as a director.
 16890) C. He's a great actor, but she doesn't like all his films.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MAN: Did you just come back from the cinema, Irene? /  WOMAN: Oh yes, I did. I just saw a movie called 'Adventure into Darkness'. I wasn't sure I was gonna like it, but it was well worth the money. /  MAN: Is that the one with that actor… what's his name…Amir Chambers? /  WOMAN: Yeah, that's the one! He's a very versatile performer and always makes his characters come to life. Did you know he's a director also? /  MAN: Is he? What did he direct? /  WOMAN: That famous movie, 'Summer's gone'. /  MAN: Oh, right, I remember that. I must admit that it's a great film. /  WOMAN: It is, and Amir Chambers actually wrote the story. He's such a force! He hires really good actors for his films, and he creates a special atmosphere in all his movies. /  MAN: Did you like the girl in the movie, Julie March? I thought she wasn't a good match. /  WOMAN: Yeah... well, I think she's better suited for other types of roles, but she didn't underdeliver.
Q 9535 [radio] You hear two students talking about a new professor. /  What do they both think about her?
 16891) A. Nobody in the class can hear her.
 16892) B. She doesn't respond to students' questions.
 16893) C. She's not interactive or involved with the students.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  STUDENT 1: What did you think about the new professor, Dr. Turner? /  STUDENT 2: It was a bit of a letdown, to be honest, don't you think? /  STUDENT 1: Yeah. She's nothing like Dr. Morash. He constantly engaged with students and used a lot of graphics to illustrate his ideas. But Turner doesn't do any of that. /  STUDENT 2: Definitely not. It's so tedious to sit there and watch her get through the material without even lifting her face from her notes. The other problem is that I can't hear a word she's saying. /  STUDENT 1: What do you mean? /  STUDENT 2: You were right up the front, but I was down the back, and most of the students from the back rows couldn't hear her because she didn't turn on the mike. /  STUDENT 1: Oh, yes, that's right.
Q 9536 [radio] You hear a woman speaking on a YouTube channel. /  What type of channel does she have?
 16894) A. A political channel
 16895) B. A history channel
 16896) C. A travel channel
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Hey everyone, welcome back to my channel! If you've been following along, you already know we've been exploring some amazing places. Remember the Finland episode from last October? Such an incredible country! Did you guys know that in Finland, there are actually more women than men in the government? Totally blew my mind! But, hey, let's talk about Mexico for a sec. I had an amazing time exploring Mexico City, especially visiting this incredible place – I think it's called the National Museum of Anthropology. It was like stepping into a vibrant history book, learning all about ancient civilizations like the Aztecs and Mayans, their fascinating cultures, and how Mexico has evolved over the centuries. But guess what's next? We're heading to the USA! I'll be in Washington, DC, next week, bringing you some cool insights and stories. So, don't forget to hit that subscribe button and turn on notifications to stay updated. Can't wait to share my adventures in the States with you all. Stay tuned, and thanks for watching – see you in the next video!
Q 9547 [radio] 19 Speaker 1
 16897) A. Promotion opportunities
 16898) B. A good salary
 16899) C. A convenient location
 16900) D. Job satisfaction
 16901) E. Good work relationships
 16902) F. Flexible working hours
 16903) G. Employee benefits
 16904) H. Job security
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I live in a big city and hate spending hours on public transport, so my priority in a job has always been a short commute time...until recently. Now, I work in a small non-profit, and my perspective has changed. I have to spend more time than I'd love commuting, and the salary isn't something to write home about, but for the first time in my life, I love what I do, and that's unbeatable. I do sometimes think about the higher salaries in the corporate world, but then I remember the fulfilment I get from my work, and I won't change that for the world.
Q 9548 [radio] 20 Speaker 2
 16905) A. Promotion opportunities
 16906) B. A good salary
 16907) C. A convenient location
 16908) D. Job satisfaction
 16909) E. Good work relationships
 16910) F. Flexible working hours
 16911) G. Employee benefits
 16912) H. Job security
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  When I started out in the tech industry, I was all about the salary. However, over the years, I've been in teams where everyone was at each other's throats, and it was just miserable. Now, I work with a group where we support each other, share knowledge, and really connect. It's transformed my job experience. Don't get me wrong, a good salary goes a long way, but being surrounded by the right people is what makes each day worthwhile. We also have flexible working hours, which helps a lot, but it's the teamwork that truly stands out for me.
Q 9549 [radio] 21 Speaker 3
 16913) A. Promotion opportunities
 16914) B. A good salary
 16915) C. A convenient location
 16916) D. Job satisfaction
 16917) E. Good work relationships
 16918) F. Flexible working hours
 16919) G. Employee benefits
 16920) H. Job security
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  In my field, as a software developer, we often have to work long hours, so being able to manage my time is crucial. I wouldn't survive on a fixed schedule. I definitely value that more than the benefits the company offers. We have health insurance, gym memberships, and regular team-building activities, which is great and makes a big difference in my overall well-being, but that means nothing if I can't move my working time around the other stuff in my life. Obviously, a good paycheck at the end of the month is also essential, although not a priority.
Q 9550 [radio] 22 Speaker 4
 16921) A. Promotion opportunities
 16922) B. A good salary
 16923) C. A convenient location
 16924) D. Job satisfaction
 16925) E. Good work relationships
 16926) F. Flexible working hours
 16927) G. Employee benefits
 16928) H. Job security
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I've been in the marketing industry for over a decade and want to progress in my career. I want to know that there's a path forward and that my hard work and dedication will be recognised. A good salary is great, and having good work relationships is essential; I've been in jobs where my colleagues made my life miserable. But it's the potential to grow and develop in my career that keeps me motivated day in and day out. I couldn't be in a job if I knew that would be it for me for the rest of my working days. I'd rather live in the street!
Q 9551 [radio] 23 Speaker 5
 16929) A. Promotion opportunities
 16930) B. A good salary
 16931) C. A convenient location
 16932) D. Job satisfaction
 16933) E. Good work relationships
 16934) F. Flexible working hours
 16935) G. Employee benefits
 16936) H. Job security
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Initially, I believed a high salary was the key to job satisfaction. But working in the field of environmental science has changed my view. Sure, money is important, but in this industry, funding and projects can fluctuate, and that uncertainty can be scary and challenging. Knowing that my job is stable is critical for me, especially in a field I'm passionate about. As a mother of three, all I need is reassurance. While flexible hours and a convenient location are nice perks, they don't contribute to the peace of mind I need to have in my life.
Q 9554 [radio] 24 What does Dr. Harrow say about her transition to Stanford?
 16937) A. She did it motivated by a project.
 16938) B. She thought she'd regret the decision.
 16939) C. The new university was better than she'd anticipated.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: We're joined today by Dr. Elisabeth Harrow, a renowned professor at Stanford University and author of the book "What is Gender?". Elisabeth, you've had a remarkable journey. Could you start by telling us about your transition from Boston to Stanford? /  DR. HARROW: Absolutely, and thank you for having me. You know, the decision to move from Boston to Stanford wasn't an easy one. I was deeply involved in a long-term project, and leaving it midway was quite daunting. I had reservations about whether I was making the right choice. However, once I arrived at Stanford, my apprehensions quickly dissipated. The university is simply fantastic – from the extensive library and state-of-the-art scientific labs to the vibrant academic community, it exceeded my expectations. The resources and opportunities available here have been a game-changer for my research and teaching. It's been thirteen years now, and I often reflect on how this move, though initially challenging, turned out to be one of the best decisions of my professional life.
Q 9555 [radio] 25 What's one of the problems for certain first-year students at university?
 16940) A. It's hard to be away from home.
 16941) B. They find their field of study too difficult.
 16942) C. They have trouble conciliating leisure and studies.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: In your experience, what challenges do first-year students face when adapting to university life? /  DR. HARROW: Well, many of my first-year students struggle initially. They're young, and the newfound freedom of being away from home can be quite overwhelming. Unfortunately, some get a bit too carried away, and spend more time hanging out with their friends than in the library. This often results in them failing my class in their first year and leads to some difficult conversations with their parents. It's a delicate balance, helping them navigate the academic rigours while also enjoying the social aspects of university life. Other students realise they've made a mistake in choosing their field of study and they've wasted lots of time and money.
Q 9556 [radio] 26 How did Covid-19 affect Dr. Harrow's work?
 16943) A. Her work became more complicated.
 16944) B. She lost some students who dropped out.
 16945) C. She had to work more hours.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: And how did the Covid-19 pandemic affect your teaching and the students? /  DR. HARROW: The pandemic was a significant challenge. Stanford, like other universities, switched to remote learning, which was tough for many students. The sudden lack of face-to-face interaction and the shift to online learning disrupted the usual rhythm of academic life, and resulted in many students experiencing some learning loss. For teachers, it was hard too. It's not like I had to learn anything new or complicated to do my job, but my workload doubled overnight.
Q 9557 [radio] 27 Dr. Harrow's book...
 16946) A. is enriched by multiple perspectives.
 16947) B. reflects on her theories about gender.
 16948) C. focuses on history.
  SITE FEEDBACK: INTERVIEWER: Speaking of your work, your new book, "What is Gender?" has been making waves. Tell us a bit about it. /  DR. HARROW: I'm really excited about the book. It's an exploration of gender identity and its societal impacts. The book examines historical perspectives on gender roles, analyses current gender-related challenges, and offers insights into the future of gender dynamics. It features interviews with various experts and personal stories that highlight the diverse experiences of women across different cultures. The response has been overwhelming, and I've been invited to Dubai for a book signing this weekend. It's my first time visiting, and I'm planning to extend my trip to take in the sights.
Q 9558 [radio] 28 Why is Dr. Harrow going to Dubai?
 16949) A. She's going to promote her book.
 16950) B. She wants to travel to new places.
 16951) C. She's going to talk about gender.
  SITE FEEDBACK: INTERVIEWER: Speaking of your work, your new book, "What is Gender?" has been making waves. Tell us a bit about it. /  DR. HARROW: I'm really excited about the book. It's an exploration of gender identity and its societal impacts. The book examines historical perspectives on gender roles, analyses current gender-related challenges, and offers insights into the future of gender dynamics. It features interviews with various experts and personal stories that highlight the diverse experiences of women across different cultures. The response has been overwhelming, and I've been invited to Dubai for a book signing this weekend. It's my first time visiting, and I'm planning to extend my trip to take in the sights. The book delves into the complexities of gender in the modern world, challenging many conventional notions.
Q 9559 [radio] 29 What's Dr. Harrow looking forward to at next year's seminars?
 16952) A. Being able to spread her ideas about feminism.
 16953) B. Learning from other academics.
 16954) C. Visiting different cities and places.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: And you have a busy year ahead with seminars across Europe, right? /  DR. HARROW: Yes, next year is packed. I'll be giving seminars at London City University, The Sorbonne, and a college in Heidelberg on Fifth Wave Feminism. It's going to be a whirlwind tour, but I'm looking forward to the networking opportunities and meeting others in my field. These seminars are a fantastic opportunity to discuss the latest research and ideas in gender studies and to learn from colleagues across the globe.
Q 9560 [radio] 30 What does Dr. Harrow hope to achieve with the association?
 16955) A. Raise money for victims of domestic violence.
 16956) B. Let victims of domestic violence tell their stories.
 16957) C. Produce documentaries.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  INTERVIEWER: Your work isn't just academic; you're also actively involved in preventing gender-based violence. Can you tell us more about that? /  DR. HARROW: Absolutely. I'm part of an association dedicated to this cause. We're collaborating with Stanford's film department to produce a documentary on gender-based violence. The goal is to raise awareness and funds to support victims of domestic violence worldwide. It's a project very close to my heart. We aim to highlight the stories of survivors and the ongoing efforts to combat this global issue. /  INTERVIEWER: That sounds like a powerful initiative. Dr. Harrow, thank you for sharing your insights and experiences with us today. /  DR. HARROW: Thank you for having me. It's been a pleasure.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/stories-of-relationships-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 9613 [radio] Who's talking about a co-worker?
 17034) A. Oscar
 17035) B. Melissa
 17036) C. Robert
 17037) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  ROBERT: When I first started at my current job, I didn't know anyone there. However, I soon got to know Arthur, one of my colleagues. We had a lot in common, and before long, we became pretty close. Our conversations weren't just about work; they extended to our personal lives, hobbies, and families. One weekend, he invited me and my wife to a barbecue at his house. It was there that he introduced us to his partner. During the barbecue, my wife and his partner really hit it off, finding they shared many interests. They became friends quickly. Unfortunately, over time, my relationship with Arthur started to get worse because of some disagreements at work. Eventually, we fell out, and our relationship went back to being just professional. It was awkward because my wife and Arthur's partner had become close, but such is life.
Q 9614 [radio] Who's talking about his or her ex?
 17038) A. Oscar
 17039) B. Melissa
 17040) C. Robert
 17041) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MELISSA: I married my high school sweetheart when I was just twenty-two. John was my first and only relationship. We met when we were 16, and we started dating at 17. Unfortunately, after 23 years, our marriage wasn't working any longer, and we decided to part ways after a lifetime together. When we separated, I formed a close bond with a colleague at work. She became my confidant and best friend. One day, she excitedly suggested that she knew the perfect man for me and practically set up a blind date despite my hesitations. She insisted so much that I finally agreed. We decided on a familiar restaurant for the meeting, a place that felt safe and neutral. I was quite nervous because I had never dated anyone other than John. When I walked through the door, I couldn't believe my eyes, it was John! When he saw me, we both started laughing. What are the odds?
Q 9615 [radio] Who's talking about an acquaintance?
 17042) A. Oscar
 17043) B. Melissa
 17044) C. Robert
 17045) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  ANDREW: Back in college, there was this girl I had a huge crush on. We weren't close, just acquaintances, really, but I thought about her in secret all the time. We had common friends and often met here and there on nights out, but I never had the courage to ask her out. Fast forward a few years, a very close friend of mine introduced me to his new girlfriend, and, to my dismay, it was the same girl I'd been silently admiring from afar. It crushed me a little bit, to be honest, but I tried to be happy for my friend. Time went by, and I received a wedding invitation. Standing there at their wedding, watching my crush becoming my friend's wife, was bittersweet. I was invited to share in their joy, and that's what I decided to focus on.
Q 9616 [radio] Who's talking about his or her wife or husband?
 17046) A. Oscar
 17047) B. Melissa
 17048) C. Robert
 17049) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OSCAR: I used to share an apartment with three other people. We started sharing the place when we were university students and became best friends. When we all finished our studies and started to work, we continued living together because we got along very well, and it was difficult to afford an apartment on your own in the city. On a night out, one of my flatmates introduced me to one of his friends, Sarah, and there was an immediate spark there. I asked her out, and we started dating. The connection between us was unbelievable. Now, she's my best friend, and she's the first person I ever went out with… and, hopefully, she'll be the last, because we got married last year.
Q 9617 [radio] Who was surprised to see someone he or she had been in a relationship with?
 17050) A. Oscar
 17051) B. Melissa
 17052) C. Robert
 17053) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MELISSA: I married my high school sweetheart when I was just twenty-two. John was my first and only relationship. We met when we were 16, and we started dating at 17. Unfortunately, after 23 years, our marriage wasn't working any longer, and we decided to part ways after a lifetime together. When we separated, I formed a close bond with a colleague at work. She became my confidant and best friend. One day, she excitedly suggested that she knew the perfect man for me and practically set up a blind date despite my hesitations. She insisted so much that I finally agreed. We decided on a familiar restaurant for the meeting, a place that felt safe and neutral. I was quite nervous because I had never dated anyone other than John. When I walked through the door, I couldn't believe my eyes, it was John! When he saw me, we both started laughing. What are the odds?
Q 9618 [radio] Who facilitated the beginning of a friendship?
 17054) A. Oscar
 17055) B. Melissa
 17056) C. Robert
 17057) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  ROBERT: When I first started at my current job, I didn't know anyone there. However, I soon got to know Arthur, one of my colleagues. We had a lot in common, and before long, we became pretty close. Our conversations weren't just about work; they extended to our personal lives, hobbies, and families. One weekend, he invited me and my wife to a barbecue at his house. It was there that he introduced us to his partner. During the barbecue, my wife and his partner really hit it off, finding they shared many interests. They became friends quickly. Unfortunately, over time, my relationship with Arthur started to get worse because of some disagreements at work. Eventually, we fell out, and our relationship went back to being just professional. It was awkward because my wife and Arthur's partner had become close, but such is life.
Q 9619 [radio] Who lived with his or her friends?
 17058) A. Oscar
 17059) B. Melissa
 17060) C. Robert
 17061) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OSCAR: I used to share an apartment with three other people. We started sharing the place when we were university students and became best friends. When we all finished our studies and started to work, we continued living together because we got along very well, and it was difficult to afford an apartment on your own in the city. On a night out, one of my flatmates introduced me to one of his friends, Sarah, and there was an immediate spark there. I asked her out, and we started dating. The connection between us was unbelievable. Now, she's my best friend, and she's the first person I ever went out with… and, hopefully, she'll be the last, because we got married last year.
Q 9620 [radio] Who wasn't completely happy about his or her friend?
 17062) A. Oscar
 17063) B. Melissa
 17064) C. Robert
 17065) D. Andrew
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  ANDREW: Back in college, there was this girl I had a huge crush on. We weren't close, just acquaintances, really, but I thought about her in secret all the time. We had common friends and often met here and there on nights out, but I never had the courage to ask her out. Fast forward a few years, a very close friend of mine introduced me to his new girlfriend, and, to my dismay, it was the same girl I'd been silently admiring from afar. It crushed me a little bit, to be honest, but I tried to be happy for my friend. Time went by, and I received a wedding invitation. Standing there at their wedding, watching my crush becoming my friend's wife, was bittersweet. I was invited to share in their joy, and that's what I decided to focus on.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/party-experiences-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 9621 [radio] Who met and got on well with someone new?
 17066) A. Caroline
 17067) B. Tom
 17068) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CAROLINE: The last party I went to was at someone's house. I went with my friend Denise. She knew lots of people there, but I only knew Denise. She'd invited me there, and I accepted simply because I didn't have anything better to do. The party was in the garden, and it was a lovely warm evening. They had a big table with more food than you can imagine, and it was all delicious. People helped themselves to food and ate it while sitting down on the grass on cushions and blankets. After that, everyone sat and chatted while classical music was playing in the background. I normally hate that kind of music, but it was just right for this occasion. I felt a bit left out at the start of the party because Denise started chatting to her old friends while I just stood there. But then I started chatting to a guy called Richard, who I got on really well with, and after that, the hours flew by. Before I knew it, nearly everyone had gone, and Richard, Denise and I were among the last people there.
Q 9622 [radio] Who didn't have enough to eat at the party?
 17069) A. Caroline
 17070) B. Tom
 17071) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  TOM: I went to a party at my friend's house. He has a huge open space that combines the kitchen and living room, with doors leading to the yard outside. Even so, the place was packed with people, and you could hardly move. But that was partly because there was a band in one corner, which took up quite a lot of space. Everyone was saying how amazing the band was, and true, they played some popular songs, but they were all depressing, and the singer was out of tune, so I didn't think much of them myself. I went to the party with some friends, and there seemed to be quite a few interesting people there. The problem was that when I tried to talk to someone, my friends came along and wanted to talk to me, so I didn't really meet anyone new. There were a few snacks on the table, but you can imagine they didn't last long with that crowd. I was really hungry, so I ordered a pizza delivery, but when it arrived, everyone ate it really fast, so that didn't help.
Q 9623 [radio] Who thought the music was OK?
 17072) A. Caroline
 17073) B. Tom
 17074) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CAROLINE: The last party I went to was at someone's house. I went with my friend Denise. She knew lots of people there, but I only knew Denise. She'd invited me there, and I accepted simply because I didn't have anything better to do. The party was in the garden, and it was a lovely warm evening. They had a big table with more food than you can imagine, and it was all delicious. People helped themselves to food and ate it while sitting down on the grass on cushions and blankets. After that, everyone sat and chatted while classical music was playing in the background. I normally hate that kind of music, but it was just right for this occasion. I felt a bit left out at the start of the party because Denise started chatting to her old friends while I just stood there. But then I started chatting to a guy called Richard, who I got on really well with, and after that, the hours flew by. Before I knew it, nearly everyone had gone, and Richard, Denise and I were among the last people there.
Q 9624 [radio] Who left the party as early as possible?
 17075) A. Caroline
 17076) B. Tom
 17077) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MIKE: I met a new guy called Sam at work and we got on quite well. Last week, he said he was having a party on Saturday and invited me to come and meet his friends. I said sure. And so he told me to arrive at about five o'clock, which I thought was a bit early, but I thought nothing of it. And so I got there and… well, it turned out it was a birthday party for his four-year-old kid! So all these children were running around and shouting over the awful children's party music. There were a few parents who looked really tired. I was the only person without a child, so I felt very uncomfortable. And I didn't talk to any adults because they were all so busy and anyway, they all knew each other. But there was far more pizza, cake and lemonade than the children could eat, so that was good. Later, I started playing games with the kids, which was quite fun. When they all finally went home, Sam invited me to stay for a beer, but his wife wanted him to help tidy up, and his kid was crying, so I went home as soon as I could.
Q 9625 [radio] Who knew some of the people at the party?
 17078) A. Caroline
 17079) B. Tom
 17080) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  TOM: I went to a party at my friend's house. He has a huge open space that combines the kitchen and living room, with doors leading to the yard outside. Even so, the place was packed with people, and you could hardly move. But that was partly because there was a band in one corner, which took up quite a lot of space. Everyone was saying how amazing the band was, and true, they played some popular songs, but they were all depressing, and the singer was out of tune, so I didn't think much of them myself. I went to the party with some friends, and there seemed to be quite a few interesting people there. The problem was that when I tried to talk to someone, my friends came along and wanted to talk to me, so I didn't really meet anyone new. There were a few snacks on the table, but you can imagine they didn't last long with that crowd. I was really hungry, so I ordered a pizza delivery, but when it arrived, everyone ate it really fast, so that didn't help.
Q 9626 [radio] Who expected the party to be very different?
 17081) A. Caroline
 17082) B. Tom
 17083) C. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MIKE: I met a new guy called Sam at work and we got on quite well. Last week, he said he was having a party on Saturday and invited me to come and meet his friends. I said sure. And so he told me to arrive at about five o'clock, which I thought was a bit early, but I thought nothing of it. And so I got there and… well, it turned out it was a birthday party for his four-year-old kid! So all these children were running around and shouting over the awful children's party music. There were a few parents who looked really tired. I was the only person without a child, so I felt very uncomfortable. And I didn't talk to any adults because they were all so busy and anyway, they all knew each other. But there was far more pizza, cake and lemonade than the children could eat, so that was good. Later, I started playing games with the kids, which was quite fun. When they all finally went home, Sam invited me to stay for a beer, but his wife wanted him to help tidy up, and his kid was crying, so I went home as soon as I could.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/renting-a-car-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 9627 [radio] Karen...
 17084) A. wants to rent a car today.
 17085) B. didn't book a car.
 17086) C. can choose from two different types of cars.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: Hi, can I help you? /  KAREN: Hello, I was wondering... Do you have any cars available from tomorrow? I know it's a busy time of year, and I haven't booked… /  RENTAL AGENT: Don't worry, you are in luck. We have three cars available. A small car, a medium and a large. /  KAREN: How many seats do they have? /  RENTAL AGENT: The small car can carry four people, the medium car has five seats, and the large one has enough seats for seven people.
Q 9628 [radio] Which car does she choose?
 17087) A. The small car.
 17088) B. The medium car.
 17089) C. The large car.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  KAREN: Are they all four-door cars? /  RENTAL AGENT: The small car has two doors. The others have four. /  KAREN: Well, I'd really like four doors, not two. But there are only four of us. I don't need seven seats. /  RENTAL AGENT: So, this one will be best for you, I think. /  KAREN: That looks great.
Q 9629 [radio] How much longer will the woman be on holiday here?
 17090) A. Two days.
 17091) B. Three days.
 17092) C. Five days.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: So how long do you want it for? /  KAREN: Hmm, well, we have five more days of vacation here after today, so… I think I'd like it for three days, please, because I want to spend our last two days here in this town.
Q 9630 [radio] Who will drive the car?
 17093) A. The woman and her husband.
 17094) B. The woman and her son.
 17095) C. The woman only.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: That's fine. And will you be the only driver? /  KAREN: My son would like to drive, but my husband doesn't want to. He hates driving on narrow roads. /  RENTAL AGENT: How old is your son? /  KAREN: He's eighteen. /  RENTAL AGENT: I'm afraid only people over the age of 20 can drive our cars. /  KAREN: Really? That's a shame. He will be disappointed. Never mind. Just me, then.
Q 9631 [radio] Why do they want to hire the car?
 17096) A. To visit some churches.
 17097) B. To hike in the mountains.
 17098) C. To get to the beach.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: Sure. So, where do you plan to drive it? /  KAREN: I'd like to visit the churches up in the mountains. I've seen some photos of them. They look really lovely. We're tired of spending time on the beach.
Q 9632 [radio] If the woman damages the car after this conversation, she must pay...
 17099) A. 20 euros.
 17100) B. 50 euros.
 17101) C. 60 euros.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: Sure, well, you will need to be careful. Those roads are steep and narrow. Do you want to take out extra insurance? /  KAREN: Aren't the cars insured? /  RENTAL AGENT: Yes, but if they are damaged, you will have to pay 1,500 euros. But if you take out the extra insurance, you will only pay 50 euros if you damage the car. /  KAREN: How much is the insurance? /  RENTAL AGENT: 20 euros per day. So, that's 60 in total. /  KAREN: It seems like a good idea. I could easily hit something, or a stone could fly up and hit the window. /  RENTAL AGENT: Sure. Well, if you just fill out this form, I can book that all for you. So, with the extra insurance, that's 386 euros, please. /  KAREN: Here you are.
Q 9633 [radio] The man advises the woman to buy fuel…
 17102) A. as soon as she collects the car.
 17103) B. before driving into the mountains.
 17104) C. before returning the car.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RENTAL AGENT: Great, that's all gone through. So, your car's tank will be full. Please return it full, or you will have to pay extra.
Q 9634 [radio] What's the earliest time the car can be collected tomorrow?
 17105) A. 8 a.m.
 17106) B. 9 a.m.
 17107) C. 10 a.m.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  KAREN: Sure. And what time can I pick it up in the morning? /  RENTAL AGENT: We are open from eight o'clock. /  KAREN: Well, we won't be here that early. We haven't gotten up before ten o'clock since we arrived here. But tomorrow, we will make an effort to get up early and enjoy the day. I'll aim to be here at nine. /  RENTAL AGENT: Sure. I'll see you then.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/the-museum-of-your-exs-belongings-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 9713 [radio] Why did Dražen and Olinka break up?
 17273) A. Their relationship was nice but they argued a lot.
 17274) B. One of them prioritised work.
 17275) C. They didn't have a lot of things in common.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NARRATOR: Maybe it's time to get rid of your ex's plush toy or their broken sunglasses, and maybe their lock of hair. Luckily, in Zagreb, Croatia, a place exists where these items can be preserved instead of just sitting at the back of your closet. Dražen Grubišić and Olinka Vištica, the founders of the museum, had this exact problem. /  OLINKA: Dražen and myself first first met 20 years ago. He was a sculptor, artist, doing the clubs often, and I was at the time working with a French choreographer. /  DRAZEN: Our relationship was great. We had a lot in common; we were quite busy at the time as well, so we traveled a lot, which was really nice. Yeah, it was a nice relationship. /  OLINKA: Maybe work was taking over me. I was very ambitious at the time. /  DRAZEN: It wasn't a spectacular breakup. It was more like, "Yeah, let's just split."
Q 9714 [radio] What led to the creation of the museum?
 17276) A. A discussion about the sentimental value of a trivial item.
 17277) B. The need to preserve sentimental items from their past relationship.
 17278) C. Their interest in uncovering the stories behind exes' belongings.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OLINKA: There was this banal bunny. We would take it to different places when we would travel without the partners. And that was the trigger for us to think, "Okay, who takes the bunny?" /  DRAZEN: We were sitting in a kitchen and talking about it, and it was fascinating that something so banal could have such a huge emotional trigger. To anybody else, it was just a banal object, but to you, it was like, you just look at it, and it's heart-wrenching. That's where the idea of the museum came about.
Q 9715 [radio] What does Drazen say about the donors' descriptions?
 17279) A. It was initially a concern to let the donors write the descriptions.
 17280) B. They are very interesting, although sometimes too short.
 17281) C. Some of them are inspired by movies.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NARRATOR: So, what makes an item worthy of a spot on a plinth? /  OLINKA: There are no criteria you have to meet to be accepted as a part of the collection because I think it's the most beautiful thing, you become part of a huge community across the world with people you don't even know. But we all share this human connection through love, and its disappearance. /  DRAZEN: All the descriptions are written by donors, so whoever gives the object is the one behind the story. I was kind of afraid at the beginning. You have no control over it, so I thought it might be boring or repetitive. And it turned out from the start, they write so well, and you have sometimes these really short three or four-sentence stories that give you like the insight and you want to know more. And they're like the trailer to movies that you want to see. As every other serious museum, we also have a gift shop with t-shirts, bags, chocolates, and so on. But they all have a quirky message dealing with the museum, dealing with break up, love. The most popular item is the big eraser. It's called Bad Memories Eraser. People usually, when they see it, start laughing and they get like - "Oh, I know who this goes to."
Q 9716 [radio] How do Olinka and Dražen describe their experience of working together after their breakup?
 17282) A. It wasn't difficult because they always maintained a respectful relationship.
 17283) B. It's been a long learning journey for them.
 17284) C. They didn't think it was possible but they proved it is.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NARRATOR: Does it ever get weird working with your ex? /  OLINKA: It's a long process of 15 years learning how to work together, respect each other. That's the best thing you can do, to create something with someone, and to learn how to respect yourself and the other person in the process /  DRAZEN: And prove that it's possible!
Q 9717 [radio] How do the donors feel about donating their objects?
 17285) A. They like the creative process that it inolves.
 17286) B. They're happy to get rid of stuff and help the museum.
 17287) C. They find the process comforting.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  DRAZEN: And prove that it's possible! Enabling people to get rid of these reminders and actually transform them into something else. The process of writing this story, packing the object, and sending it away, I'm sure, provides relief. And we've heard it from so many people. /  NARRATOR: And this museum isn't just a quirky way to spend an afternoon in Zagreb. /  OLINKA: Visitors empathize so much with other people. They learn how to overcome their own prejudices we all have, on some level, through this experience, which is for all of us the same.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/countries-nationalities-and-languages-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 9766 [radio] Speaker 1...
 17410) A. lives in Australia.
 17411) B. speaks Italian with her friend.
 17412) C. can speak two languages.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 1: I come from Italy and live in Rome. My father is Italian, and my mother is from Australia, so I speak English and Italian at home. We sometimes visit our Australian family. I love Australia; it's a great country, but I prefer Italy. My best friend is Irish; she came to Rome last year and is learning Italian quickly, but we communicate in English.
Q 9767 [radio] What's true about speaker 2?
 17413) A. His wife is from Turkey.
 17414) B. His parents live in Egypt.
 17415) C. He sometimes travels to Germany and Sweden.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 2: I live in Egypt, in the capital, Cairo. I'm from the UK, but I work here as a journalist. I can speak Arabic because my parents are Egyptian. My wife is from Turkey, and she works here in Egypt too. She speaks English and Arabic. I have two colleagues from Europe. Henry is from Germany, and Erik is from Sweden.
Q 9768 [radio] Speaker 3...
 17416) A. often travels to England.
 17417) B. speaks English with his family.
 17418) C. has a friend from Nigeria.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 3: I'm Indian, and I speak Hindi with my family and friends, but at work, I use English because it's common in India for business. One of my colleagues is Nigerian, and we are good friends. I speak English with him. Sometimes, I invite him home, and then all my family has to speak English because my colleague can't speak Hindi.
Q 9769 [radio] Speaker 4...
 17419) A. can speak two languages.
 17420) B. lives in Japan.
 17421) C. sometimes travels to Japan.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 4: I am learning Japanese because my wife is from Japan, and when we visit her family there, I can't understand them. I love Japanese culture and traditions and want to learn the language, but it isn't easy. Now we have a baby. I speak English to her, and my wife speaks Japanese, so my daughter will speak two languages.
Q 9770 [radio] Speaker 5...
 17422) A. is from Mexico.
 17423) B. speaks Spanish.
 17424) C. lives in the United States.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 5: My neighbor's father is Canadian, and her mother is Mexican, but Lupe, my neighbor, was born here in the United States. I love going to Lupe's home because they are all very nice and funny. Also, her mother is a great cook, and I love Mexican food. Lupe speaks a combination of Spanish and English with her mother. It's very funny.
Q 9771 [radio] What's true about speaker 6?
 17425) A. She has a friend who lives in Paris.
 17426) B. She can speak different languages.
 17427) C. Her friend wants to stay in London.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SPEAKER 6: I study in an International school, and there are students from many parts of the world. I have friends from Brazil, Spain, Greece... but my best friend is French. She is from Paris, but her parents work here in London. She loves England and says she wants to stay here when her parents return to Paris. I hope she can stay.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/describing-rooms-there-is-are-prepositions-of-place-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 9781 [radio] Which bedroom is she describing?
 17476) A. 
 17477) B. 
 17478) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  My bedroom has a big bed in front of the door. There are two bedside tables, one on each side of the bed. There is a large picture on the wall over the bed and a big rug under the bed. There is a desk under a window next to the door, with a computer and a lamp on it, and there's a chair in front of the desk. Next to the desk, there's a wardrobe with some drawers.
Q 9783 [radio] Which kitchen is he describing?
 17482) A. 
 17483) B. 
 17484) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  In my kitchen, there's a big fridge with a cupboard over it. Next to the fridge, there are some drawers and a cooker. There's a microwave next to the cooker between the cooker and the sink. Opposite the sink, there's a table with some chairs around it. We usually have dinner there. Over the sink, there is a shelf and some more cupboards.
Q 9784 [radio] Which living room is she describing?
 17485) A. 
 17486) B. 
 17487) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I live with four other people, so my living room is big. There are some armchairs and coffee tables in front of a sofa. On the floor, there is a rug under one of the coffee tables. There are some pictures on the wall over the sofa, and there's a small bookshelf next to it. We have a small TV in front of a window, and there's another bookshelf beside the TV, behind an armchair.
Q 9785 [radio] Which study is she describing?
 17488) A. 
 17489) B. 
 17490) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  My study is my favourite room in the house. I have a nice desk with drawers in front of the door. There isn't an armchair, but my chair is very comfortable. Next to the drawers, there is a beautiful plant, and there are two shelves above the plant. There is another shelf over the desk with some books and a clock. On the other side of the desk, there is a bookshelf with more drawers, and I have my computer and a lamp on the desk.
Q 9786 [radio] Which dining room is he describing?
 17491) A. 
 17492) B. 
 17493) C. 
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  In the middle of my dining room, there is a table and chairs between two armchairs. There is a rug under the table, and next to it, there's a big window with curtains. On one of the walls, there are two big paintings over a chest of drawers. There are two lamps on this chest of drawers, and next to it, there's another chest of drawers with a plant on it. A small picture is on the wall over this second chest of drawers.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/the-chef-who-cant-eat-what-she-cooks-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 9787 [radio] Kathlena became a chef because...
 17494) A. that was her plan since she was growing up
 17495) B. she needed to do something about her allergies
 17496) C. she wanted to prove her abilities
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  KATHLENA: Did not grow up thinking I was going to be a chef. That was never the plan, but I've always been the kind of person who needs to like shove it in people's faces and be like, "Ha, look what I can do," but in a really nice way. /  NARRATOR: Meet Kathlena. She's on a mission to make delicious food for every allergy and intolerance, but with severe food allergies herself, she rarely tastes the food she makes. She's even allergic to flowers.
Q 9788 [radio] Kathlena...
 17497) A. has many allergies, but none is very serious.
 17498) B. has fewer meals than usual to avoid health problems.
 17499) C. uses 'touch' among other senses to cook.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  KATHLENA: I mean, I generally eat once a day to try to minimize the amount of reactions that there could be. My reactions can range from, you know, what one might consider mild, so headache, um, irritations all over your body, to severe anaphylaxis, near death. /  I cook by sight. I cook by sound. I cook by smell. I cook by, really, the science of it all. I love making food that shouldn't exist, and when it does, it knocks you off your feet and you go, "Wait, you made this and you can't eat it?" I'm like, "Yeah, what's it taste like? Tell me all about it."
Q 9789 [radio] Kathlena says that...
 17500) A. her respirator is not very uncomfortable and makes her look cool.
 17501) B. not wearing her respirator could even cause her death.
 17502) C. her respirator is inconvenient when cooking.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NARRATOR: For Kathlena to cook certain foods safely, she wears a respirator. /  KATHLENA: I think I've had to wear my respirator for about seven or eight years now. I make it look cool and look good, but it's really uncomfortable. It's like having a death grip on your face. And then sometimes when you're cooking, it fogs up, so like, you can't really see what you're doing. You're like, literally like windshield wiping your own face. It's really weird.
Q 9790 [radio] Kathlena...
 17503) A. can't avoid contact with certain product.
 17504) B. plans to buy a piece of land somewhere and live there.
 17505) C. learned how to cook for restricted diets on an online platform.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  NARRATOR: Going to the shops can set off her allergies too, but a chef always needs ingredients. /  KATHLENA: So, when you're at the grocery store, corn is everywhere. The wax on produce is corn derived. Even like the adhesive on the stickers that they use, usually corn derived. It's in so many places that you literally cannot avoid it unless you buy a piece of land and never leave. /  NARRATOR: After acing her chef training and rewriting her French pastry exam to be top nine free, Kathlena launched Raise, a platform to teach cooking for restricted diets.
Q 9791 [radio] Kathlena argues that...
 17506) A. vegans are more concerned about not using allergens when cooking.
 17507) B. the tastiest ingredients are normally allergens.
 17508) C. she can make anyone enjoy food without using common allergens.
  SITE FEEDBACK: KATHLENA: There's like all these foods that people think can't exist because, "Oh, you can't have this; that's free from gluten, dairy, egg, peanut, blah, blah, blah, all the things," and I'm like, "Yeah, watch me." You know, if you're vegan, they're like, "Oh, and here's some wheat and some tree nuts and some soy." And they throw every allergen into almost every recipe. And it's, I'm like, "Wait. What about people who are allergic to these things or can't have this or can't have that, right?" I will find all of these strange ways to bring back flavor and texture and experience when you thought you'd never have it again. It includes the entire community. No one gets left behind.
Q 9792 [radio] What was special about Kathlena's "candy overload cake"?
 17509) A. It was for a girl who could not have birthday cakes due to her preferences.
 17510) B. It included every possible type of candy and sweet treat on top
 17511) C. It was the first birthday cake for a 12-year-old girl.
  SITE FEEDBACK: KATHLENA: One of the coolest cakes I ever made—it's dubbed candy overload cake. A mom called and she said, "My daughter's turning 12. But because of her allergies, the kid had just never had a birthday cake," and I said, "Okay. Well, how about since it's her first cake and you know me, go big or go home. Cookies, candies, chocolates. Um, anything that's safe, marshmallows, all of it, just all goes on top." The dad brings the little girl to pick up her cake, and I just slide it over and I'm like, "Happy birthday." And dad is on the verge of tears. Her face was just so like, "God, that's mine?" You know, like, you never forget that moment. Like, helping kids have that first something that everybody takes for granted.  /  Like, it's not about being a chef, it's about reinventing the world for people who cannot engage in it just because you have this wild, fringe diagnosis does not mean you can't live. You're going to live. You just gotta put in some elbow grease. A lot of it, actually.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/how-do-you-travel-to-work-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 9793 [radio] What does Piers say about the bus?
 17512) A. It takes him fifteen minutes to get to the bus stop.
 17513) B. He can often sit and relax on the bus.
 17514) C. He often cannot relax on the bus.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  PIERS: My morning begins with a bit of a rush. First up, I catch the bus to the Tube station. It takes me five minutes to walk to the bus stop and then another fifteen to get to the Tube. Most days, the bus is so packed that I can't even find a seat, which is annoying because, so early in the morning, I just want to sit and relax while listening to some music. Standing there, swaying back and forth with every turn, really tests my patience. Once I get to the Tube, things are different because I can always sit, and I usually have time to grab a coffee before getting on. The underground is convenient and takes me to work in no time, but it feels a bit cold and impersonal. Everyone's buried in their phones or staring blankly. But it's better than getting stuck in traffic any day.
Q 9801 [radio] What does Piers think about the underground?
 17529) A. It's sad and he hates it.
 17530) B. It's much better than driving.
 17531) C. He loves it, but only when he can sit.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  PIERS: My morning begins with a bit of a rush. First up, I catch the bus to the Tube station. It takes me five minutes to walk to the bus stop and then another fifteen to get to the Tube. Most days, the bus is so packed that I can't even find a seat, which is annoying because, so early in the morning, I just want to sit and relax while listening to some music. Standing there, swaying back and forth with every turn, really tests my patience. Once I get to the Tube, things are different because I can always sit, and I usually have time to grab a coffee before getting on. The underground is convenient and takes me to work in no time, but it feels a bit cold and impersonal. Everyone's buried in their phones or staring blankly. But it's better than getting stuck in traffic any day..
Q 9802 [radio] Sydney...
 17532) A. relaxes and watches the sunrise before going to work.
 17533) B. doesn't like loud music in the car.
 17534) C. drinks coffee on her way to work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SYDNEY: I live in a house not far from the city where I work. Every morning, I drive a van for my small catering business. It's not just any drive, though. We're talking about a 35-minute journey through beautiful scenery, watching the sunrise with a hot cup of coffee in the cup holder and some of my favorite music on as loud as I want – no headphones required. Sure, there's the occasional traffic jam when I'm entering the city, which can be a bit annoying, and I've got to watch for speed cameras, but this journey is my little slice of peace and quiet before the day kicks off. Sometimes, I enjoy my drive to work so much that I slow down to make it last a little longer.
Q 9803 [radio] Which is true about Sydney?
 17535) A. She always has to slow down due to speed cameras.
 17536) B. She always finds traffic jams when entering the city.
 17537) C. She sometimes feels her journey to work is too short.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SYDNEY: I live in a house not far from the city where I work. Every morning, I drive a van for my small catering business. It's not just any drive, though. We're talking about a 35-minute journey through beautiful scenery, watching the sunrise with a hot cup of coffee in the cup holder and some of my favorite music on as loud as I want – no headphones required. Sure, there's the occasional traffic jam when I'm entering the city, which can be a bit annoying, and I've got to watch for speed cameras, but this journey is my little slice of peace and quiet before the day kicks off. Sometimes, I enjoy my drive to work so much that I slow down to make it last a little longer.
Q 9804 [radio] Brenda...
 17538) A. began to enjoy cycling in New York.
 17539) B. enjoys her bike ride to work but not so much the ferry.
 17540) C. enjoys both her bicycle and ferry ride.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  BRENDA: I live in Amsterdam, and my daily commute involves a bicycle and a ferry. I ride my bike to the ferry, cross a canal, and then cycle a bit more to reach my workplace. Back home in New York, I found cycling to work stressful and dangerous, but here, I look forward to my peaceful ride alongside picturesque canals and the brief, calm ferry ride that offers stunning city views. Sometimes, I have to wait for the ferry a little longer than I'd like, and it often rains, but with a bit of patience and the right clothes, everything is OK. Occasionally, if the weather is terrible, I take the underground and a tram, but that hardly ever happens.
Q 9805 [radio] Brenda says that she...
 17541) A. has a plan B for her commute on certain days.
 17542) B. sometimes has no patience to wait for the ferry.
 17543) C. never takes the underground.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  BRENDA: I live in Amsterdam, and my daily commute involves a bicycle and a ferry. I ride my bike to the ferry, cross a canal, and then cycle a bit more to reach my workplace. Back home in New York, I found cycling to work stressful and dangerous, but here, I look forward to my peaceful ride alongside picturesque canals and the brief, calm ferry ride that offers stunning city views. Sometimes, I have to wait for the ferry a little longer than I'd like, and it often rains, but with a bit of patience and the right clothes, everything is OK. Occasionally, if the weather is terrible, I take the underground and a tram, but that hardly ever happens.
Q 9806 [radio] Nick...
 17544) A. spends one hour in his car every day.
 17545) B. feels miserable about his daily commute.
 17546) C. turned his daily commute into an opportunity.
  SITE FEEDBACK: NICK: Commuting in this city is no joke. I'm in my car, on the motorway, for over an hour each way. Yes, it seems hard. At first, I felt miserable seeing how much of my time I had to waste in a car to get to a job I didn't love. Eventually, I decided to do something about it. Now, I don't waste any more time: my daily commute is my learning time. I listen to podcasts, audiobooks, you name it. I'm studying French because I love it and because it will open new work opportunities for me. Now, every time I'm stuck in a traffic jam, I no longer get frustrated and yell because I'm concentrating on listening and learning. It's my time to grow.
Q 9807 [radio] Nick says that...
 17547) A. he often gets frustrated in traffic jams.
 17548) B. learning French might help him get a new job.
 17549) C. he likes his current job.
  SITE FEEDBACK: NICK: Commuting in this city is no joke. I'm in my car, on the motorway, for over an hour each way. Yes, it seems hard. At first, I felt miserable seeing how much of my time I had to waste in a car to get to a job I didn't love. Eventually, I decided to do something about it. Now, I don't waste any more time: my daily commute is my learning time. I listen to podcasts, audiobooks, you name it. I'm studying French because I love it and because it will open new work opportunities for me. Now, every time I'm stuck in a traffic jam, I no longer get frustrated and yell because I'm concentrating on listening and learning. It's my time to grow.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/york-england-a-medieval-town-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 9794 [radio] The Romans are the origin of the city of York.
 17515) A. True
 17516) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  The city of York, which stands on the river Ouse, in the northern English county of Yorkshire, has a very long history. It was founded by the Romans in 71 AD, and by medieval times was one of the most important cities in England.
Q 9795 [radio] Most of the castle built in 1070 is still there.
 17517) A. True
 17518) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  William the Conqueror built the castle in about 1070 to control the city. But all that remains is the keep, called Clifford's Tower.
Q 9796 [radio] No other towns preserve their medieval walls like York.
 17519) A. True
 17520) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  The city is still surrounded by its medieval walls. Very few towns in England have any trace of their medieval walls nowadays, and these are the best preserved. The four main gatehouses, which give entry to the city, were very useful in medieval times, to levy taxes on goods coming into the city. There are many medieval buildings, including half-timbered houses.
Q 9797 [radio] York was a rich town thanks to its river.
 17521) A. True
 17522) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  The Merchant Adventurer's Hall, is one of the most important medieval buildings in the city. It was founded in 1357 to promote economic activity and trade. The river Ouse was an important thoroughfare, and merchant ships arrived in York with cargos of wine from France, furs from the Baltic, and cloth from today's Netherlands, making York wealthy.
Q 9798 [radio] The cathedral, called the Minster, was built in 627.
 17523) A. True
 17524) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  The first church on the site was made wood and built in 627. The present Minster, as the cathedral is called, was built in the 13th century and is mainly constructed of cream colored magnesium limestone, which is found nearby in Yorkshire.
Q 9799 [radio] The Minster has the biggest windows in the world.
 17525) A. True
 17526) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  The Minster is a supreme example of perpendicular Gothic architecture, which laid stress on soaring vertical lines, high windows with pointed arches, huge rose windows, and decorative fan vaulting. There are 128 stained glass windows in the Minster. It is the largest area of stained glass in the world and the creation of anonymous medieval craftsmen.
Q 9800 [radio] The King's Screen features 15 sculptures of William the Conqueror and Henry VI.
 17527) A. True
 17528) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: Feedback /  Black Purbeck marble from the south coast of England was often used for tombs, archbishops. The choir stalls were reserved for important churchmen and monks. One of the few social groups who could read and write. One of the glories of York Minster is the King's Screen, with 15 sculptures of kings of England, from William the Conqueror to Henry VI, who was murdered in 1471.  /  York was famous for its cycles of mystery plays. Put on outside the minster to entertain the populace, but also to warn them to behave or go to hell after death. The city of York, a rich source of medieval culture in the north of England.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/do-your-kids-help-with-household-chores-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 9947 [radio] According to Ravi,...
 17846) A. four years old is too early to give chores to a child.
 17847) B. his child doesn't like to do housework.
 17848) C. children can do more things than we think.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RAVI: Tommy is seven years old, and he started helping us around the house when he was just four. Other parents thought it was too early to give their children chores, but kids are more capable than you think. We started with little things, like putting his toys in the toy box after using them, his dirty clothes in the laundry basket, or helping us set and clear the table. Obviously, it wasn't perfect, and we had to help him, but he learned that keeping a house clean takes work and that Mommy and Daddy do lots of things. Now he's seven, and he makes his bed and cleans up his room every day; he also vacuums, takes out the trash, waters the plants, and even helps with cooking. He's a little trooper, and we are so proud of him.
Q 9948 [radio] Which chore did Ravi's son do when he was four?
 17849) A. Take out the trash.
 17850) B. Make his bed.
 17851) C. Set the table.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  RAVI: Tommy is seven years old, and he started helping us around the house when he was just four. Other parents thought it was too early to give their children chores, but kids are more capable than you think. We started with little things, like putting his toys in the toy box after using them, his dirty clothes in the laundry basket, or helping us set and clear the table. Obviously, it wasn't perfect, and we had to help him, but he learned that keeping a house clean takes work and that Mommy and Daddy do lots of things. Now he's seven, and he makes his bed and cleans up his room every day; he also vacuums, takes out the trash, waters the plants, and even helps with cooking. He's a little trooper, and we are so proud of him.
Q 9949 [radio] According to Sophie...
 17852) A. their kids shout a lot.
 17853) B. it is hard to make her children do chores.
 17854) C. her teenagers only do the simplest tasks.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SOPHIE: My kids are teenagers now, and getting them to do chores is a real challenge. They enjoy walking our dog, Charlie, which is nice... But for anything else, I have to keep asking and asking. I often end up shouting at them to do the simplest tasks, like making their beds in the morning or mopping the bathroom floor after their showers. And the arguments we have about whose turn it is to clear the table or take the rubbish out are endless. It's all part of the fun of having teens, I suppose. But I guess part of the problem is that their dad and I did everything for them when they were little, so now they're lazy and don't appreciate everything we do for them.
Q 9950 [radio] What does Sophie say about her children?
 17855) A. They didn't help at all when they were younger.
 17856) B. They don't walk the dog enough.
 17857) C. They never clear the table or take the rubbish out.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SOPHIE: My kids are teenagers now, and getting them to do chores is a real challenge. They enjoy walking our dog, Charlie, which is nice... But for anything else, I have to keep asking and asking. I often end up shouting at them to do the simplest tasks, like making their beds in the morning or mopping the bathroom floor after their showers. And the arguments we have about whose turn it is to clear the table or take the rubbish out are endless. It's all part of the fun of having teens, I suppose. But I guess part of the problem is that their dad and I did everything for them when they were little, so now they're lazy and don't appreciate everything we do for them.
Q 9953 [radio] Emily...
 17864) A. pays her kids for each chore they do.
 17865) B. pays her kids extra money for washing cars.
 17866) C. never allows her children to stay up watching TV.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  EMILY: We have two boys, eight and ten, and we think it's very important they learn life skills so that one day they can run their own house. They must also learn the value of work. Every week, if they complete their chores on time and do a good job, they get their allowance –we tell them it's their salary. Sometimes, they can even earn some extra money to do some chores that aren't on their list, like washing my car or their dad's car. They learned the relationship between working and earning from a very early age. However, they also get other rewards from doing house chores, like being allowed to stay up watching TV for a little longer on some days. We believe these lessons will help them become responsible and independent adults. It's not just about the chores; it's about preparing them for the future.
Q 9951 [radio] Which is true about Oliver?
 17858) A. Each child does four or five chores every week.
 17859) B. Their home is very messy.
 17860) C. His kids only do the chores that they choose.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OLIVER: We have four kids, so things at home can get very messy if you aren't organised. We use a chart with the days of the week and all the chores that we need to do each day. Every week, each child picks three chores, and we add one or two more to their list. For example, today, Ben is helping prepare the lunch boxes for school, Lydia is setting the dinner table and taking the rubbish out, Sylvia is clearing the table and loading the dishwasher, and David is mopping the kitchen and bathrooms. All our children started doing housework when they were just three years old. They know their mum and I need all the help we can get, as managing a household with four kids is too much for a couple of working parents.
Q 9952 [radio] According to Oliver,...
 17861) A. today, Ben is helping with the laundry.
 17862) B. one of the children is just three years old.
 17863) C. he and his wife both have jobs.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  OLIVER: We have four kids, so things at home can get very messy if you aren't organised. We use a chart with the days of the week and all the chores that we need to do each day. Every week, each child picks three chores, and we add one or two more to their list. For example, today, Ben is helping prepare the lunch boxes for school, Lydia is setting the dinner table and taking the rubbish out, Sylvia is clearing the table and loading the dishwasher, and David is mopping the kitchen and bathrooms. All our children started doing housework when they were just three years old. They know their mum and I need all the help we can get, as managing a household with four kids is too much for a couple of working parents.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/comparing-things-and-people-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 9976 [radio] Which car is better for parking?
 17909) A. The red Nissan
 17910) B. The black Kia
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  You can choose between these two cars: the red Nissan and the black Kia. The Nissan is more expensive and faster than the Kia, which is good for long trips. The Kia is cheaper and slower but better for driving in town because it's smaller than the Nissan, which means it's easier to park. I don't know which car is more comfortable, but the Kia has a better stereo and navigation system.
Q 9978 [radio] Which jeans are warmer?
 17913) A. The blue jeans
 17914) B. The black jeans
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I don't know which jeans to buy. The blue jeans are more comfortable and a little cheaper than the black ones. However, the black jeans look nicer; they are more stylish and seem warmer than the blue jeans. And the winters here are very cold. I don't know what to do. Which ones do you like better?
Q 9980 [radio] Which brother is happier?
 17917) A. Liam
 17918) B. Mike
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  I have two little brothers, Liam and Mike. Liam is older but a little shorter than Mike, who is taller and stronger. However, Liam is more intelligent and hardworking. He loves reading and always gets much better grades at school. Mike loves sports; he's more active and is always happier than Liam.
Q 9982 [radio] Which phone is safer?
 17921) A. iPhone
 17922) B. Samsung
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Which phone do you prefer, an iPhone or a Samsung? The iPhone is more expensive than the Samsung, but it's easier to use. The Samsung is cheaper and has a bigger screen, which is good for watching videos. Samsung phones use Android, which has more apps, but the iPhone is safer. I'm not sure; both phones are great but different.
Q 9984 [radio] Which apartment is cheaper?
 17925) A. The apartment on Maple Avenue
 17926) B. The apartment on Pine Street
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  Which apartment do you prefer, the one on Maple Avenue or the one on Pine Street? The apartment on Maple Avenue is smaller but more central, making it easy to walk to shops and restaurants. It's also newer, equipped with modern appliances and furniture. However, the Pine Street apartment is much bigger and less expensive, plus it's in a quieter area with less traffic. But it might be hotter in the summer because it's larger and older. I'm not sure; both apartments offer different advantages.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/what-are-you-going-to-do-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 10063 [radio] Mark is going to...
 18217) A. visit his family.
 18218) B. travel.
 18219) C. buy a new car.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  TINA: Mark, what are you going to do with the lottery money? /  MARK: I'm going to plan an amazing family vacation. I want to take my wife and kids to an exotic place. It's going to be a surprise. /  TINA: Are you going to buy a new car? /  MARK: Not now, because our family car is very new, but I'm going to buy a really nice bike for my son, Richy. He loves riding bikes. /  TINA: Are you going to buy a new bike for your daughter, too? /  MARK: No, she doesn't like bikes. I'm going to buy new furniture for her room. She'll love that.
Q 10064 [radio] Mark is also going to...
 18220) A. ride a bike.
 18221) B. buy a new bike for his daughter.
 18222) C. buy new furniture.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  TINA: Mark, what are you going to do with the lottery money? /  MARK: I'm going to plan an amazing family vacation. I want to take my wife and kids to an exotic place. It's going to be a surprise. /  TINA: Are you going to buy a new car? /  MARK: Not now, because our family car is very new, but I'm going to buy a really nice bike for my son, Richy. He loves riding bikes. /  TINA: Are you going to buy a new bike for your daughter, too? /  MARK: No, she doesn't like bikes. I'm going to buy new furniture for her room. She'll love that.
Q 10065 [radio] James is going to...
 18223) A. spend one month with his grandparents.
 18224) B. go fishing.
 18225) C. read a book.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SAM: What are you going to do after the exams, James? /  JAMES: I am going to visit my grandparents. They live in the countryside. /  SAM: That sounds nice. How long are you going to stay there? /  JAMES: I'm going to stay for a week. /  SAM: What are you going to do there? /  JAMES: I'm going to go fishing by the river, and I'm going to eat good food and rest. And I'm not going to open a book in the whole week! What about you, Sam? What are you going to do? /  SAM: I am going to rest for a few days, too, and I'm going to start reading a new book. /  JAMES: That's a good plan. Enjoy your reading! /  SAM: Thanks! Have fun at your grandparents' house.
Q 10066 [radio] Sam is going to...
 18226) A. call James.
 18227) B. visit her family for a few days.
 18228) C. read a book.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  SAM: What are you going to do after the exams, James? /  JAMES: I am going to visit my grandparents. They live in the countryside. /  SAM: That sounds nice. How long are you going to stay there? /  JAMES: I'm going to stay for a week. /  SAM: What are you going to do there? /  JAMES: I'm going to go fishing by the river, and I'm going to eat good food and rest. And I'm not going to open a book in the whole week! What about you, Sam? What are you going to do? /  SAM: I am going to rest for a few days, too, and I'm going to start reading a new book. /  JAMES: That's a good plan. Enjoy your reading! /  SAM: Thanks! Have fun at your grandparents' house.
Q 10067 [radio] Jake is going to...
 18229) A. help his dad.
 18230) B. go to the cinema.
 18231) C. cook pizza.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CARLA: What are you going to do this Saturday, Jake? /  JAKE: I'm going to do some homework and help my dad in the garden. /  CARLA: That sounds useful! What else are you going to do? /  JAKE: In the evening, I'm going to watch a movie with my family. /  CARLA: Are you going to watch it at home or at the cinema? /  JAKE: We're going to watch it at home. It's movie night! My dad is going to set up our projector in the living room. /  CARLA: Are you going to make popcorn? /  JAKE: Absolutely! It's not a movie night without popcorn. We're going to order some pizzas, too.  /  CARLA: Sounds like you're going to have a fun weekend! /  JAKE: Yeah! What about you? What are you going to do? /  CARLA: I'm going to visit my cousin. We're planning to spend the day at the beach. /  JAKE: That sounds great! Have fun at the beach. /  CARLA: Thanks, Jake! Enjoy your movie night.
Q 10068 [radio] Carla is going to...
 18232) A. make popcorn.
 18233) B. visit a friend.
 18234) C. go to the beach.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  CARLA: What are you going to do this Saturday, Jake? /  JAKE: I'm going to do some homework and help my dad in the garden. /  CARLA: That sounds useful! What else are you going to do? /  JAKE: In the evening, I'm going to watch a movie with my family. /  CARLA: Are you going to watch it at home or at the cinema? /  JAKE: We're going to watch it at home. It's movie night! My dad is going to set up our projector in the living room. /  CARLA: Are you going to make popcorn? /  JAKE: Absolutely! It's not a movie night without popcorn. We're going to order some pizzas, too. /  CARLA: Sounds like you're going to have a fun weekend! /  JAKE: Yeah! What about you? What are you going to do? /  CARLA: I'm going to visit my cousin. We're planning to spend the day at the beach. /  JAKE: That sounds great! Have fun at the beach. /  CARLA: Thanks, Jake! Enjoy your movie night.
Q 10069 [radio] Tom is NOT going to...
 18235) A. have a shower.
 18236) B. eat dinner with his family.
 18237) C. drive.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  DANIEL: What time are you going to be here, Tom? /  TOM: Well, I finish work at 5:30, but after work, I'm going to go home and have a shower. /  DANIEL: Are you going to come here right after the shower? /  TOM: No, first I'm going to cook some dinner for my family. My wife works until late today. /  DANIEL: Are you going to have dinner with them? /  TOM: No, I won't have time. I'm going to eat a snack while I'm cooking. After that, I'm going to drive to your place. /  DANIEL: Okay, so what time do you think you will arrive? /  TOM: I think I will get there at around 7:30. Are you going to be ready? /  DANIEL: Of course. The match is at 8:30, so we won't have much time. See you later then. Drive safely! /  TOM: Sure! See you later.
Q 10070 [radio] Daniel and Tom are going to...
 18238) A. travel.
 18239) B. go to the pub.
 18240) C. watch a match.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  DANIEL: What time are you going to be here, Tom? /  TOM: Well, I finish work at 5:30, but after work, I'm going to go home and have a shower. /  DANIEL: Are you going to come here right after the shower? /  TOM: No, first I'm going to cook some dinner for my family. My wife works until late today. /  DANIEL: Are you going to have dinner with them? /  TOM: No, I won't have time. I'm going to eat a snack while I'm cooking. After that, I'm going to drive to your place. /  DANIEL: Okay, so what time do you think you will arrive? /  TOM: I think I will get there at around 7:30. Are you going to be ready? /  DANIEL: Of course. The match is at 8:30, so we won't have much time. See you later then. Drive safely! /  TOM: Sure! See you later.

=== PAGE /exams/ielts/ielts-exam-1-listening/
Q 10112 [gaps] Long Walks Short Walks 2 {1} Walks Distance 1 {2} miles 4-6 miles 2-3 miles Start 10.00 am 10.00 am 3 {3} am Take / Details 4 {4}  /  Walks on a different day each week (not weekends) /  5 {5} for details or meeting point and walk leader.
  {1} free text
  {2} free text
  {3} free text
  {4} free text
  {5} free text
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  PHIL: Westmarsh Footpaths Society, Phil speaking. /  EMMA: Oh, hi, I got your phone number off the website, and I was wondering if I could join. I know I can do that on the website too, but I had a couple of questions. /  PHIL: Sure, fire away. /  EMMA: Well, I’ve walked with the Ramblers before, but I find their walks a bit challenging. They’re quite long and.. um, strenuous. Can you tell me about your walks? /  PHIL: Of course. We actually have three types of walks. Our long walks aren’t that long—usually around eight miles, starting at 10 am... well, we meet half an hour before, so the walk leader can get everyone organised... and we’re usually finished at around 2, 2.30. /  EMMA: I’m not sure I’m up to 8 miles yet... /  PHIL: Well our short walks are around 4-6 miles, and they are usually at a moderate pace. It’s about being out enjoying the countryside, not getting there as fast as possible. /  EMMA: Good. That sounds like my kind of walk! /  PHIL: Great. We also have something called a leisure walk. We only started those this year and they are very popular with our older members. Our oldest walker is 92. Older members still want to walk, but can’t manage rough ground, steep hills or stiles, so we do 2-3 miles over easy ground – hence the leisure walk, They’re really popular. /  EMMA: Wow! What a great idea. I think my mum would like that. Do you stop at a pub or something for lunch? /  PHIL: No, we take a packed lunch, then we’re not tied as to where we can walk. Long and short walkers stop somewhere on the way, and leisure walkers have a picnic at the end of the walk because they start at 11 and the walk is usually only an hour, hour and a half, so.... everyone has a packed lunch. /  EMMA: Right. That makes sense. Which day are the walks on, or does it vary? /  PHIL: It does. We don’t walk at weekends. But if it’s Monday this week, it’ll be Tuesday next week and so on. It’s so people who are doing other things have a chance to join in at least some of the programme. /  EMMA: That’s a great idea. And I look on the website for when the walks are? /  PHIL: Yes, there’s a members’ area where you can see a walks calendar saying the days of the walks, the meeting point—usually a carpark or a landmark like a church—and the name and number of the walk leader in case you have any questions. But we also email the walks calendar out to members and send a weekly email to remind them of the walks the following week.
Q 10113 [gaps] Westmarsh Footpaths Society / Membership application Name: Emma 6 {1} Email address: ems1975@gmail.com Home address: 16 Manor Cottages, Hemsworth, 7 {2} Phone number: 07765 749 983 D.o.B. DD/MM/YY 8 10/ {3} /75 Emergency Contact: Friend, (Kate) 07763 711612 Interested in ‣ Walking ✔ /  ‣ 9 {4} ✗ [one morning a month] /  ‣ Path clearing ✔ [outside the 10 {5} season]
  {1} free text
  {2} free text
  {3} free text
  {4} free text
  {5} free text
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  EMMA: That all sounds great. You have some fascinating walks. That’s one of the reasons I want to join, to see some different places. Can I do that now, over the phone? /  PHIL: You certainly can. Can I take your name? /  EMMA: Emma. Emma Whitham. /  PHIL: That’s W-I-T— /  EMMA: It's W-H-I-T-H-A-M. /  PHIL: Got that. And your email address? /  EMMA: E, M, S, one, nine, seven, five, at G-mail dot com. /  PHIL: And do you want me to use this number—the one you’re calling on? oh-double seven-six five, seven-four-nine, nine-eight-three? /  EMMA: Yes. I don’t have a home phone. Everyone uses mobiles these days, don’t they? /  PHIL: They do. And your home address, Emma? /  EMMA: Sixteen Manor Cottages, Hemsworth, That’s D16 5NU. /  PHIL: Fine, and can I have a date of birth, Emma? It’s something we need to record for insurance purposes. Walkers are insured when they’re out with us. /  EMMA: Sure. Tenth of September nineteen-seventy-five. /  And who would we contact in an emergency? It needs to be someone who could come and get you or who could deal with things in case of an accident. /  EMMA: Got it... I was going to say my daughter, but actually it’d be really hard for her with the kids... Kate. My best friend. She’s on oh-seven-seven-six-three, seven-one-one, six-one-two. /  PHIL: Great. Now, the society’s aim is to keep footpaths open, and we do that largely by walking them, but we also have two groups that get a bit more involved. One is for signposts. The Signposts lot replace missing fingerposts and waymarkers, so members of the public know where paths go... /  EMMA: I’m not sure that’s my thing. /  PHIL: No problem. It’s just one morning a month through the year, but it isn’t for everyone. The other group help with footpath clearing between September and March—outside nesting season, so we don’t disturb the birds. It’s to trim back brambles and things like that. We do it for one morning once a month. /  EMMA: Oh, yes, I could manage that. /  PHIL: Super. So, if I could just take some payment details...
Q 10123 [radio] 20 Country life exhibition
 18323) A
 18324) B
 18325) C
 18326) D
 18327) E
 18328) F
 18329) G
 18330) H
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ From the transcript, we know that the country life exhibition is in the lodge, but we are not told which building is the lodge. However, from the transcript, we know what all the buildings are except for G, so we can assume that G is the lodge. This is a list of the buildings: /  A: Café - Previously a barn, now serving as the café. /  B: Old Dairy - Now houses an exhibition detailing the history of the estate. /  C: Craft Gallery and Workshops - Formerly the stable block, to the left of the main house. /  D: Arboretum - Contains trees and is mentioned as having toilets. /  E: Main House - The central building. /  F: Estate Manager's Office - Identified as the second building on the right, where the estate manager's offices and historical records, including estate maps and the 1871 census, are kept. /  G: Likely the Lodge - By process of elimination, as it's the only building left without a defined role. /  H: Picnic Area - Designated for those with packed lunches, located back over the road next to the car park.
Q 10125 [checkbox, pick 2] Choose two options A-E? Which TWO opinions about the lecture do the speakers express?  /  The lecture was...
 18339) A. baffling.
 18340) B. engaging.
 18341) C. shocking.
 18342) D. reassuring.
 18343) E. entertaining.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Kevin opens the conversation with "I thought it was fascinating," indicating that he found the lecture to be engaging and interesting. /  ‣ Amber mentions, "The lecturer showed how Britain went through a period of great upheaval and the world didn't end, so we're not all going to be doomed by AI!" This reflects that the lecture provided reassurance about the future impact of AI, contrasting it with historical events to alleviate concerns.
Q 10126 [checkbox, pick 2] Which TWO claims about TalkGTX do the speakers make?
 18344) A. It is lazy.
 18345) B. It is biased.
 18346) C. It threatens jobs.
 18347) D. It is inaccurate.
 18348) E. It learns fast.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Lazy: This is inferred from Kevin’s statement where he describes scenarios where the AI "stops halfway" and "might even suggest that you do the task yourself because it seems to lose interest." /  ‣ Inaccurate: Amber points out that "it returns wrong answers alarmingly often," directly addressing the issue of inaccuracy.
Q 10129 [radio] 25 Financial Analysts
 18359) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18360) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18361) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18362) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18363) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18364) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18365) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Amber explains that AIs are very good at seeing trends, better than people, which helps companies make predictions and ultimately improves the quality of work in the financial analysis sector.
Q 10130 [radio] 26 Law firms
 18366) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18367) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18368) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18369) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18370) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18371) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18372) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Amber mentions that law clerks are in short supply and that creating and checking documents is something AIs are good at, suggesting that AI helps alleviate the lack of available personnel.
Q 10131 [radio] 27 Customer Services
 18373) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18374) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18375) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18376) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18377) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18378) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18379) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Amber points out that while ChatBots can be frustrating, they help in filtering queries which makes staff more efficient.
Q 10132 [radio] 28 Editing
 18380) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18381) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18382) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18383) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18384) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18385) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18386) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Amber notes that fewer human editors are needed for checking style and continuity because AIs don’t miss errors, leading to firms combining roles.
Q 10133 [radio] 29 Illustrators
 18387) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18388) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18389) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18390) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18391) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18392) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18393) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Kevin remarks that they used to need hundreds of illustrators to create pictures for children's books, but now only a handful are used because AI does the rest, implying that many illustrators have been made redundant due to AI taking over much of the work.
Q 10134 [radio] 30 Hospitality
 18394) A. AIs are combining certain roles.
 18395) B. Many people have been made redundant by AIs.
 18396) C. AIs have helped reduce the impact of unfilled vacancies.
 18397) D. It is hard to see a place for AI in the industry.
 18398) E. AIs have made employees more effective.
 18399) F. There has been very little impact on the sector.
 18400) G. AIs have improved the quality of people’s work.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Amber remarks that this is one sector where AIs can’t help, implying that human roles like chefs and waiting staff are safe from automation.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/the-truth-about-expired-food-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 10185 [radio] According to the video,...
 18492) A. the US is one of the countries that waste most food.
 18493) B. 37% of food is wasted in the US.
 18494) C. 20% of people in the US can't interpret food labels.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that countries around the world waste huge amounts of food every year, and the United States is one of the worst offenders. This indicates that the US is among the countries that waste the most food.
Q 10186 [radio] Before the 20th century,...
 18495) A. supermarkets sold very few processed foods.
 18496) B. consumers could see packaging codes on products.
 18497) C. people could tell if food was fresh by using their senses.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that before the 20th century, the path between where food was produced and where it was eaten was much more direct, and most people knew how to assess freshness using sight, smell, and touch.
Q 10187 [radio] Many supermarkets added labels with dates that indicated...
 18498) A. expiration
 18499) B. best condition
 18500) C. safety
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that supermarkets adopted a system called open dating, where products were labeled with 'dates indicating optimum freshness,' meaning the best condition or peak quality of the food.
Q 10188 [radio] Manufacturers set the date to use on food labels...
 18501) A. by using scientific methods.
 18502) B. by recording how long each food is safe to eat.
 18503) C. to be much earlier than necessary.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that the dates on food labels are often set earlier than necessary to ensure customers taste the food at its best and come back for more. This is not usually based on scientific methods or the actual safety duration of the food.
Q 10189 [radio] What kind of products can last longer, according to the video?
 18505) A. Canned foods.
 18506) B. Frozen products.
 18507) C. Shelf-stable groceries.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video mentions that properly stored frozen products can be preserved 'indefinitely', suggesting they can last even longer than canned foods.
Q 10190 [radio] Ready-to-eat salads, deli meats, and unpasteurized cheeses can...
 18508) A. be eaten past their printed dates.
 18509) B. be dangerous even if they smell and taste OK.
 18510) C. carry bacteria that will affect smell and taste.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that these types of food are more likely to carry pathogenic bacteria that can slip past a smell or taste test, meaning they can be dangerous even if they smell and taste fine.
Q 10191 [radio] According to a 2019 survey,...
 18511) A. 70% of Americans throw away expired products.
 18512) B. 60% of Americans throw away expired products.
 18513) C. 60% of Americans advocate for laws to change food labels.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that in a 2019 survey of over 1,000 Americans, more than 70% said they 'use date labels to decide if food is still edible,' which means they decide whether to eat the food based on the labels. Then it says that nearly 60% of Americans said 'they'd toss any food past those dates,' meaning they'd throw away any food past the date on the label.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/giving-directions-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 10192 [radio] Dialogue 1 / Which building is the library?
 18514) A. Building A
 18515) B. Building B
 18516) C. Building C
 18517) D. Building D
 18518) E. Building E
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MAN: Excuse me, can you tell me how to get to the library? /  WOMAN: Sure. Go straight along this street until you get to the river, then turn right and walk along Riverbank Street for three blocks. You'll see a bridge on your left. Go across the bridge and walk for one block. The library will be on your left.
Q 10193 [radio] Dialogue 2 / Which building is the pharmacy?
 18519) A. Building A
 18520) B. Building B
 18521) C. Building C
 18522) D. Building D
 18523) E. Building E
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  WOMAN: Excuse me, is there a pharmacy near here? /  MAN: Yes. There's one not far from here. Take the first right and walk along the street for three blocks. You'll see a park on your left. Go past the park, and there'll be a pharmacy on your left.
Q 10194 [radio] Dialogue 3 / Which building is the grocery store?
 18524) A. Building A
 18525) B. Building B
 18526) C. Building C
 18527) D. Building D
 18528) E. Building E
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  WOMAN: Excuse me, where's the nearest grocery store? /  MAN: No problem. Take the first left and walk along the street until you pass a park. Stay on that street for three more blocks, then turn right. Go across the bridge and walk straight ahead until you reach two buildings. The grocery store will be the building on your right.
Q 10195 [radio] Dialogue 4 / Which building is the bank?
 18529) A. Building A
 18530) B. Building B
 18531) C. Building C
 18532) D. Building D
 18533) E. Building E
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  MAN: Excuse me, how can I get to the nearest bank? /  WOMAN: Sure, no problem. Take the first left and go to the end of the street. Turn right, then take the first left. Go straight ahead for three blocks and turn right again. The bank will be on your right. You'll see the river and a bridge from there.
Q 10196 [radio] Dialogue 5 / Which building is the post office?
 18534) A. Building A
 18535) B. Building B
 18536) C. Building C
 18537) D. Building D
 18538) E. Building E
  SITE FEEDBACK: Transcription /  WOMAN: Excuse me, where is the post office? /  MAN: Take the first left and stay on the street until you reach a bridge. Don't cross that bridge. Turn right and continue along the street until you come to a second bridge. Walk across the second bridge and go straight for one block. You'll see the post office on your right.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/borough-market-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10279 [checkbox] When is the market closed? (Choose TWO correct answers.)
 18737) A. Sunday at 5 PM
 18738) B. Saturday at 9 AM
 18739) C. Monday at 10 AM
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text states that Borough Market is "open every day except Monday," and specifically mentions that on Sunday, the market closes at 4 PM. Therefore, the market is closed on Sunday at 5 PM and all day on Monday, including at 10 AM. Thus, the correct answers are A and C.
Q 10280 [radio] What’s the quietest time to visit the market?
 18740) A. Tuesday after lunchtime
 18741) B. Thursday morning
 18742) C. Wednesday morning
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text states, "If you don't like crowds, it's best to visit on a weekday morning. Tuesdays and Wednesdays are generally quieter than Thursdays and Fridays." Therefore, Wednesday morning is quieter than Tuesday afternoon or Thursday morning.
Q 10281 [radio] Which is closest to the market?
 18743) A. London Bridge
 18744) B. Tower Bridge
 18745) C. The Shard
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text mentions that Southwark Cathedral is two minutes away from Borough Market, and London Bridge is a further three-minute walk from there. Therefore, we can deduce that London Bridge is a five-minute walk from the market. From London Bridge, you can view Tower Bridge, but the exact distance to Tower Bridge is not specified. Additionally, the text states that The Shard is a three-minute walk from the market. Therefore, The Shard is the closest landmark to the market.
Q 10282 [radio] According to the video, The Shard
 18746) A. has the highest observation deck in Europe.
 18747) B. offers free visits.
 18748) C. is a busy tourist site.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The transcription mentions The Shard as an "iconic skyscraper and one of the tallest buildings in Europe" and notes that "It's advisable to book in advance to make sure you won't miss the views." This implies that The Shard is a busy tourist site, making option C the correct answer.
Q 10283 [checkbox] Which of these products are mentioned in the video? (Choose TWO correct answers.)
 18749) A. alcoholic drinks
 18750) B. organic vegetables
 18751) C. artisan chocolates
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text states, "You can find fresh organic fruits and vegetables" and "If you're looking for something special, you can find gourmet products like truffles and handmade chocolates."
Q 10284 [radio] What do most visitors prefer to do at the market?
 18752) A. Try free samples of different foods
 18753) B. Have a gourmet coffee
 18754) C. Have a meal at a food stall
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text says, "You can also grab a gourmet coffee at a coffee stand or have a meal at one of the many food stalls. For most visitors, this is their favourite thing to do." This indicates that having a meal at one of the many food stalls is the favourite activity for most visitors, making option C the correct answer.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/retirement-challenges-in-the-u-s-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 10285 [radio] According to the video, which of these facts is true about the US?
 18755) A. 50% of US citizens won’t enjoy a retirement pension.
 18756) B. Around 30% of Americans haven’t saved anything for their retirement.
 18757) C. 10% of retirees have to continue working after retirement.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that "One third have next to no retirement savings at all." This translates to approximately 33%, which is close to 30%. This fact highlights the significant number of Americans who are not financially prepared for retirement.
Q 10286 [radio] What happened in the past regarding retirement pensions?
 18758) A. Employers paid for their workers’ Social Security benefits and pension plans.
 18759) B. Employees could choose between different pension plans.
 18760) C. Employees didn’t really worry about their pensions.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that traditionally, retirement was supported by Social Security and employer-provided pension plans, and "future retirement was not much of a concern for workers" because employers took responsibility for ensuring sufficient funds for retirement benefits.
Q 10287 [radio] What happens nowadays?
 18761) A. Employers contribute more than employees for their retirement.
 18762) B. Both employers and employees contribute in retirement plans.
 18763) C. Retirement benefit depends entirely on how much employees save.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video mentions that "Most employers contribute a percentage of what their workers put aside," indicating that both employers and employees contribute to retirement plans, although the primary responsibility for saving has shifted to employees.
Q 10288 [checkbox] Why can’t Americans save enough for their retirement plans? (Choose TWO answers.)
 18764) A. Inflation.
 18765) B. Only middle-class workers have access to these plans.
 18766) C. Many workers need to use their retirement money before they retire.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that "wages have stagnated while the cost of living has continued to rise," which refers to inflation. It also mentions that "many Americans have to dip into their retirement plans before they retire because they face immediate financial crises," explaining why some can't save enough.
Q 10289 [radio] According to the video, which is true about Social Security benefits?
 18767) A. The years you earned the least don’t count toward calculating them.
 18768) B. Employees receive a minimum of $1,500 a month.
 18769) C. They are enough to cover all expenses, but barely.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that Social Security benefits are "calculated based on the average of the highest 35 years of earnings," meaning the lowest-earning years are not included in the calculation.
Q 10290 [radio] What does the video say about healthcare?
 18770) A. It’s the highest expense retirees have to face.
 18771) B. Some retirees can’t pay for rent or utilities to cover healthcare expenses.
 18772) C. The Government helps with these expenses but insufficiently.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that "Medicare, the federal health insurance program, covers some expenses, but it does not cover everything," indicating that government assistance is helpful but not enough to cover all healthcare costs for retirees.

=== PAGE /listening/a2/checking-into-a-hotel-a2-english-listening-test/
Q 10291 [radio] What's Lisa's surname?
 18773) A. Berardelli
 18774) B. Bernardeli
 18775) C. Bianardelli
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10292 [radio] What room has Lisa booked?
 18776) A. double
 18777) B. twin
 18778) C. single
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10293 [radio] What was the problem with the reservation?
 18779) A. Lisa booked a different room
 18780) B. The computer didn't show a reservation
 18781) C. The receptionist made a mistake
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10294 [radio] Where can Lisa have dinner today?
 18782) A. In the dining area
 18783) B. In the restaurant
 18784) C. In her room
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10295 [radio] What time will Lisa check out tomorrow?
 18785) A. 12 pm
 18786) B. 11 am
 18787) C. Before 11 am
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10296 [radio] What does Lisa ask the receptionist?
 18788) A. She asks her to wake her up tomorrow.
 18789) B. She asks her for a phone charger.
 18790) C. She asks her to let her charge her phone.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.
Q 10297 [radio] What time does Lisa want to get up tomorrow?
 18791) A. 7:00 am
 18792) B. 7:30 am
 18793) C. 8:00 am
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Check the transcript below.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/journey-through-our-solar-system-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 10319 [radio] What does the video discuss about the Sun?
 18846) A. distance
 18847) B. volume
 18848) C. diameter
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video mentions that the Sun is so big that about 1.3 million Earths could fit inside it, which refers to its volume.
Q 10320 [radio] What is true about Mercury?
 18849) A. It takes 176 days for Mercury to travel around the Sun.
 18850) B. It has longer days than nights.
 18851) C. It cannot preserve heat after sunset.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video explains that Mercury experiences extreme temperature drops at night due to the lack of an atmosphere to retain heat.
Q 10321 [radio] What can we deduce from the video’s words about Venus?
 18852) A. It serves as a warning about human actions.
 18853) B. It has a similar atmosphere to Earth.
 18854) C. It may have hosted life in the past.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video implies that the high CO₂ levels on Venus serve as a cautionary example for Earth regarding climate change.
Q 10322 [radio] What does the video say about Jupiter’s Red Spot?
 18855) A. It was thought to be a giant volcano.
 18856) B. It was caused by a collision hundreds of years ago.
 18857) C. It’s a weather phenomenon.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video describes the Red Spot as a giant storm, indicating it's a weather phenomenon.
Q 10323 [radio] Which is the largest?
 18858) A. Titan
 18859) B. Ganymede
 18860) C. Mercury
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video mentions Ganymede is the largest moon in the solar system, larger than Mercury.
Q 10324 [radio] What is true about Saturn according to the video?
 18861) A. It’s the largest planet in our solar system.
 18862) B. It’s the second planet with more moons.
 18863) C. Its number of known moons changes regularly.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that Saturn has 146 known moons and that this number increases each year as new moons are discovered.
Q 10326 [radio] According to the video, what makes Neptune similar to Uranus?
 18867) A. Its distance from the Sun.
 18868) B. Its colour.
 18869) C. Its atmospheric conditions.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video states that both Uranus and Neptune are believed to have atmospheric conditions that could cause diamond rain, making this the similarity highlighted.
Q 10325 [radio] What is NOT mentioned about Pluto?
 18864) A. size
 18865) B. weight
 18866) C. distance to Earth relative to the Sun and Earth’s moon.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The video discusses Pluto's size, its distance from the Sun, and compares travel times from Earth to both the Moon and Pluto, indicating the relative distances involved. However, Pluto's weight is not mentioned.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/weird-driving-rules-modal-verbs-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10335 [radio] When is running out of fuel on a German motorway allowed?
 18886) A. Never.
 18887) B. Only when it’s an emergency.
 18888) C. Only when you can prevent traffic congestion or an accident.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Running out of fuel on a German motorway is never allowed as it is not considered an emergency.
Q 10336 [radio] What must you do before taking your car in Denmark?
 18889) A. Check that the children are sitting safely.
 18890) B. Check that your children are using their seats.
 18891) C. Check that there are no kids near your car.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ You must check for children under or behind the car before starting it in Denmark.
Q 10337 [radio] What is true in Spain?
 18892) A. You can’t wear sandals unless coming from the beach.
 18893) B. You must always wear safe footwear.
 18894) C. You can wear comfortable shoes or no shoes at all.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ In Spain, you must wear comfortable and safe footwear while driving, and sandals, flip-flops, or driving barefoot are not allowed.
Q 10338 [radio] What does the video imply about the law in Alaska?
 18895) A. You cannot carry a pet unless it’s tied.
 18896) B. You can’t let your dog climb onto the roof of your car.
 18897) C. You mustn’t carry your pet on the roof of your car.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The law in Alaska states that you mustn't drive with your pet on the roof of your car.
Q 10339 [radio] When can you drive in Manila?
 18898) A. It depends on the number on your number plate.
 18899) B. If you can drive on Monday, you cannot drive on Tuesday.
 18900) C. It depends on the colour of your number plate.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ In Manila, the "number coding" or "colour coding" scheme dictates that you can only drive on certain days depending on the last digit of your number plate.
Q 10340 [radio] In Thailand, you mustn’t drive without a shirt…
 18901) A. because it’s not decent.
 18902) B. unless it’s very hot.
 18903) C. unless your air conditioning is not working.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ In Thailand, driving without a shirt is prohibited to promote decency and safety on the roads.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/famous-sports-cheating-scandals-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10341 [radio] American runner Fred Lorz...
 18904) A. drove his own car instead of running.
 18905) B. was helped to cheat in the marathon.
 18906) C. drank brandy and poison.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Fred Lorz cheated by getting a lift in his manager’s car for part of the marathon. The text clearly states this incident and does not mention him driving himself or drinking brandy and poison.
Q 10342 [radio] The Chicago White Sox team...
 18907) A. was earlier called the Black Sox.
 18908) B. paid money to win games.
 18909) C. had players who had to retire from the sport.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text explains that the players were banned from professional baseball for life due to the scandal, effectively ending their careers.
Q 10343 [radio] Maradona...
 18910) A. gave the famous name to his illegal goal.
 18911) B. scored another illegal goal during the same World Cup.
 18912) C. never totally admitted what he did.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Maradona called his handball goal the "Hand of God," which became a famous term. The text notes that he admitted using his hand.
Q 10344 [radio] Nancy Kerrigan...
 18913) A. cheated to be at the Winter Olympics.
 18914) B. got hit in her knee while skating.
 18915) C. reached success after a difficult situation.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Despite being attacked, Kerrigan recovered and won a silver medal, showing her success after a tough situation.
Q 10345 [radio] What is true about Spain's Paralympic basketball team?
 18916) A. A person lied to them to expose the truth.
 18917) B. One of its players told the truth.
 18918) C. None of the players had disabilities.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The text states that a journalist infiltrated the team and exposed the scandal, meaning they lied to uncover the truth.
Q 10346 [radio] Lance Armstrong...
 18919) A. used drugs to compete in 1999, 2005, and 2012.
 18920) B. lost most of his Tour de France titles.
 18921) C. told the truth in front of the cameras.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Armstrong admitted to doping in a 2013 interview with Oprah Winfrey, thus telling the truth publicly.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/fears-and-phobias-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10526 [radio] What's the difference between a fear and a phobia?
 19332) A. A phobia limits your life, whereas a fear is a natural response to danger.
 19333) B. A fear is intense, whereas a phobia is irrational.
 19334) C. A fear is an automatic reaction, but a phobia is not.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This choice directly reflects Dr Hart's description, where she distinguishes a phobia by its capacity to disrupt normal life activities, contrasting with fear which is characterized as an automatic and protective response to potential threats.
Q 10527 [radio] What does Dr Hart suggest about the impact of different types of phobias?
 19335) A. Agoraphobia is less common than social anxiety disorder.
 19336) B. The most common phobias are not necessarily the most debilitating.
 19337) C. Social anxiety disorder can cause individuals to want to stay home.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This answer reflects the contrast mentioned in the text between common phobias, which significantly impact daily activities, and less commonly discussed phobias like social anxiety disorder and agoraphobia, which can be far more restrictive and debilitating.
Q 10528 [radio] What is true about the physical effects of phobias?
 19338) A. Shivering or an accelerated heart rate are the most common effects.
 19339) B. In some extreme cases, people may have a heart attack.
 19340) C. Panic attacks are common.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This choice directly corresponds to Dr. Hart's statement, "Panic attacks are also not uncommon," indicating that experiencing panic attacks is a frequent occurrence for those suffering from phobias.
Q 10529 [radio] What is true about the emotional effects of phobias?
 19341) A. They are incredibly intense.
 19342) B. They may lead a person to a dangerous situation.
 19343) C. They may produce just some discomfort on some occasions.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This choice aligns with the explanation that emotional reactions can vary widely from mild unease to full-blown panic. It acknowledges that not all responses to phobias are extreme and that sometimes the emotional effect might only be mild discomfort.
Q 10530 [radio] What does Dr Hart say about treatments?
 19344) A. Patients must confront their fears incrementally.
 19345) B. Some patients tolerate treatments better.
 19346) C. They may include drugs prescribed by a therapist.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This choice reflects Dr. Hart's explanation that treatment often involves gradual exposure to the fear in a safe and controlled way, which helps build up tolerance and reduces the fear response over time.
Q 10531 [radio] What's true about Dr Hart's advice to the listeners?
 19347) A. She addresses people with small phobias.
 19348) B. She suggests sharing your issues with people who'll understand you.
 19349) C. She recommends finding out your weaknesses.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ This reflects her advice that talking about your fears in a supportive environment can be incredibly effective. Dr. Hart emphasizes the importance of seeking help and talking through your fears as a method of coping.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/what-are-you-doing-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 10532 [radio] What is Jack’s dad doing?
 19350) a. He’s listening to music.
 19351) b. He’s repairing his car.
 19352) c. He’s learning a language.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.
Q 10533 [radio] What is Jack’s mum doing?
 19353) a. She’s listening to music.
 19354) b. She’s washing their car.
 19355) c. She’s learning a language.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.
Q 10534 [radio] What is Emily doing?
 19356) a. She’s doing homework.
 19357) b. She’s laughing.
 19358) c. She’s watching sports.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.
Q 10535 [radio] What is Daniel doing?
 19359) a. He’s doing homework.
 19360) b. He’s on the internet.
 19361) c. He’s cooking.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.
Q 10536 [radio] What is Anna doing?
 19362) a. She’s gardening.
 19363) b. She’s watching TV.
 19364) c. She’s cooking.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.
Q 10537 [radio] What is Jack doing?
 19365) a. He’s watching videos.
 19366) b. He’s working on his computer.
 19367) c. He’s studying Japanese.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ See the transcription below.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/tell-me-about-your-life-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 10546 [radio] Who owns a business?
 19408) James
 19409) Linda
 19410) Carlos
 19411) Sophie
 19412) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Linda owns a small bookstore and café.
Q 10547 [radio] Who works with family?
 19413) James
 19414) Linda
 19415) Carlos
 19416) Sophie
 19417) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Emily works at the same police station as her dad.
Q 10548 [radio] Who moved to a different country?
 19418) James
 19419) Linda
 19420) Carlos
 19421) Sophie
 19422) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Carlos moved from Mexico to Canada.
Q 10549 [radio] Who wants to have children?
 19423) James
 19424) Linda
 19425) Carlos
 19426) Sophie
 19427) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Emily and her husband, Mark, hope to be parents soon.
Q 10550 [radio] Who likes nature?
 19428) James
 19429) Linda
 19430) Carlos
 19431) Sophie
 19432) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Carlos and his partner, Emma, like to explore nature in Canada.
Q 10551 [radio] Who has children?
 19433) James
 19434) Linda
 19435) Carlos
 19436) Sophie
 19437) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ James has two children, Emily and Jack.
Q 10552 [radio] Who moved a lot as a child?
 19438) James
 19439) Linda
 19440) Carlos
 19441) Sophie
 19442) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sophie moved a lot as a child due to her dad's job.
Q 10553 [radio] Who loves travelling?
 19443) James
 19444) Linda
 19445) Carlos
 19446) Sophie
 19447) Emily
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Linda and her husband, Tom, love travelling and have visited over 30 countries together.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/talking-about-money-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10640 [radio] Joseph...
 19685) A. has bought a new bike.
 19686) B. needs to take a loan.
 19687) C. will have a new bike soon.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Joseph is still saving and hopes to buy a bike soon without taking a loan.
Q 10641 [radio] Taylor...
 19688) A. uses cash for her shopping.
 19689) B. doesn't use cheques anymore.
 19690) C. is a street performer.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Taylor now uses cards exclusively for all purchases, including small ones.
Q 10642 [radio] Dina...
 19691) A. helped a friend to pay her rent.
 19692) B. works in a bank.
 19693) C. lent her friend money for medical expenses.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Dina lent her friend money to help cover her rent instead of letting her take out a high-interest loan.
Q 10643 [radio] Liam...
 19694) A. has much less money for leisure now.
 19695) B. never feels like going out with friends.
 19696) C. wants to go on holiday.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Liam's increased mortgage means he has less money for leisure activities like going out with friends or going on holidays.
Q 10644 [radio] Ben...
 19697) A. will save money every month.
 19698) B. works as a mechanic.
 19699) C. owes money to the mechanic.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Ben learned the importance of saving for emergencies after his car repair and plans to save some money each month from now on.
Q 10645 [radio] Sophie...
 19700) A. regrets lending money to family.
 19701) B. borrowed money from a cousin.
 19702) C. is in a difficult financial situation.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sophie experienced problems after lending money to her cousin and now believes it's better to avoid mixing money with family.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/personal-work-stories-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10646 [radio] James...
 19703) A. has recently been promoted.
 19704) B. isn't very happy about his job.
 19705) C. wants to have more responsibility.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ James mentioned applying for a promotion, which indicates he is seeking more responsibility in his career.
Q 10647 [radio] Linda...
 19706) A. worked in a car dealership as a graphic designer.
 19707) B. likes her new boss.
 19708) C. is now doing what she likes best.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Linda transitioned from working at a car dealership to pursuing her passion as a freelance graphic designer.
Q 10648 [radio] Carlos...
 19709) A. wants to keep working in a bank but more hours.
 19710) B. is working two jobs.
 19711) C. has just got a full-time job.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Carlos is currently working part-time at a bank and studying for qualifications to get a full-time position.
Q 10649 [radio] Emily...
 19712) A. decided to quit her last job.
 19713) B. would like to get a part-time job.
 19714) C. is studying.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Emily is taking online courses to gain new qualifications while in between jobs.
Q 10650 [radio] Nadia...
 19715) A. is working as a nurse.
 19716) B. has retired to help her daughter.
 19717) C. is not sure about retiring.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Nadia is still working as a nurse but is planning to retire next year to spend more time with her family.
Q 10651 [radio] Ben...
 19718) A. would like to work on different projects.
 19719) B. doesn't like working overtime.
 19720) C. would like to be self-employed someday.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Ben expressed interest in eventually starting his own construction business.

=== PAGE /exams/toefl-ibt/toefl-ibt-exam-1-listening/
Q 10682 [radio] Why did Freya primarily go to see Professor Dubois?
 19811) A. To discuss how to manage stress.
 19812) B. To seek advice about a presentation.
 19813) C. To clarify the deadline for an assignment.
 19814) D. To understand the scope of social media.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Freya begins the conversation by saying, “Yeah, about the presentation. I'm a bit stressed about which topic to choose.” This indicates that her primary reason for meeting the professor is to seek advice on this matter.
Q 10683 [radio] What aspect of social media’s role in business is Freya most interested in?
 19815) A. The speed at which it can effect change.
 19816) B. Its ability to target specific customers.
 19817) C. The fact that anyone can write posts.
 19818) D. Its relationship with certain age groups.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Freya says, 'I find it fascinating how companies use social media for marketing and brand building... overnight, a product... can just sell out, or bomb, nobody will touch it. It’s crazy.” In other words, she’s interested in how fast social media can affect a business because of what somebody posts about a product.
Q 10684 [radio] Why does Freya mention TikTok during her conversation with Professor Dubois?
 19819) A. To discuss its role in marketing and brand building.
 19820) B. To illustrate its influence on politics and public opinion.
 19821) C. To highlight the impact of social media on mental health.
 19822) D. To show the prevalence of fake news and misinformation.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Freya talks about TikTok in the context of its impact on mental health, specifically mentioning previous talks from the student counsellor on the topic of “staying safe—mentally, I mean—when you’re engaging with sites like TikTok or Facebook.'
Q 10685 [radio] In Professor Dubois’s opinion, what is the most important aspect of Freya’s presentation?
 19823) A. How much background knowledge Freya demonstrates .
 19824) B. How thorough the research behind it is.
 19825) C. How good the draft submitted on the 14th is.
 19826) D. How engaging the topic is for the audience.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Professor Dubois emphasizes the importance of the audience's interest by saying, 'which topic do you think your audience would find most interesting? For me, that’s key.'
Q 10686 [radio] Why does the student say this in response to the professor? /  https://test-english.com/staging11/wp-content/uploads/TOEFL_Exam1-Listening1-Q5.mp3
 19827) A. To disagree with what the professor has just said.
 19828) B. To agree with what the professor has just said.
 19829) C. To stress her lack of knowledge in the matter.
 19830) D. To complain about the number of assignments students have.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Freya's exclamation, 'Don't I know it!' is a way of emphatically agreeing with the Professor's reminder about having a lot of assignments. This phrase is used to express that she is very aware of, and perhaps even overwhelmed by, the situation being discussed. It emphasizes her recognition of the challenge and perhaps a bit of frustration or resignation about her heavy workload.
Q 10687 [radio] What is the main reason Sarah wants to move out of campus housing?
 19831) A. She thinks the dormitories are unsafe.
 19832) B. She cannot afford the campus housing fees.
 19833) C. She finds the dorm environment distracting.
 19834) D. She wants to live closer to her friend at MIT.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sarah says, 'I’m finding living on campus hard. A lot of the girls in my dorm are into partying. There’s a lot of coming and going... it’s so noisy and busy in the dorm that I can’t work there.' This clearly indicates that the main reason for her desire to move out is the distracting environment in the dormitory.
Q 10688 [radio] What can be inferred about Sarah?
 19835) A. She is a married student.
 19836) B. She is a final-year student.
 19837) C. She is a postgraduate student.
 19838) D. She is an international student.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sarah says at the start that “I travelled a long way and left my family behind to study here” which suggests she might be from a foreign country. That means she is likely to be an international student.
Q 10689 [checkbox, pick 2] Why does Sarah prefer not to make an official complaint about her current dorm situation?  / Choose TWO answers
 19839) A. She believes the issues are typical of dorm life.
 19840) B. She does not think she will be taken seriously.
 19841) C. She wants to avoid conflict and quietly move out.
 19842) D. She is afraid of retaliation from other students.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ A is correct because Sarah says, 'I think it’s just the way dorms are,' indicating she believes the issues are typical. She then says, 'I don’t want to make an official complaint; I just want to quietly move on,' showing her desire to avoid conflict.
Q 10690 [radio] What does Sarah need to do in order to terminate her housing contract?
 19843) A. Pay a termination fee.
 19844) B. Submit a written request.
 19845) C. Discuss it with campus security.
 19846) D. Wait for the end of the semester.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The housing officer advises, 'In that case, you just need to make a formal request – just say what you’ve told me – but put it in writing.'
Q 10691 [radio] What does the housing officer mean when he says this? /  https://test-english.com/staging11/wp-content/uploads/TOEFL_Exam1-Listening3-Q5.mp3
 19847) A. She will check on Sarah’s well-being after she moves off-campus.
 19848) B. She will need to be informed of Sarah’s movements for a while.
 19849) C. She will have to write a series of reports on Sarah for the university.
 19850) D. She will have to keep Sarah under surveillance until she has settled in.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Keeping tabs on someone means checking up on them, and since Alison Rodriguez is the Welfare Officer, this means that she will monitor Sarah's wellbeing after her move.
Q 10704 [radio] What is the main idea of the lecture?
 19905) A. Brand image reflects a company’s personality and values.
 19906) B. Brand image maintains customer loyalty through consistency.
 19907) C. Brand Image derives from an accumulation of customer feedback.
 19908) D. Brand image is everything customers think and feel about a brand.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer states, 'Brand image is the sum of all impressions, associations, and experiences consumers have with that brand,' highlighting that it encompasses all consumers think and feel about a brand.
Q 10705 [radio] What does the professor mean when she says this? /  https://test-english.com/staging11/wp-content/uploads/TOEFL-Exam1-Listening2-Q2.mp3
 19909) A. they must fully understand their target market.
 19910) B. they must try to control brand image as much as possible.
 19911) C. they must constantly get feedback from consumers.
 19912) D. they must resonate with their chosen demographic.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The phrase 'get to grips with” means understanding something or dealing with something in a direct and effective way, so it suggests needing a deep understanding of the target market—the “audience” or the consumers the company is aiming the product at.
Q 10706 [radio] According to the professor, what do companies risk when they deviate from their established brand values?
 19913) A. Increasing their marketing costs.
 19914) B. Disaffecting their customers.
 19915) C. Reducing their product quality.
 19916) D. Losing market share to competitors.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The professor mentions brand values and says, “Any deviation from these values risks alienating consumers.” If you alienate customers you disaffect them, they turn elsewhere.
Q 10707 [radio] What is the speaker’s attitude towards Pepsi following the Kendall Jenner ad?
 19917) A. He is shocked that the company ran the advertisement at all.
 19918) B. He believes the outcome would have been different at a different time.
 19919) C. He is surprised by the scale of the outrage the advert prompted.
 19920) D. He thinks Pepsi only have themselves to blame for any resulting losses.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer expresses criticism towards Pepsi for the controversial ad, stating, 'It was astonishingly inept,' indicating that Pepsi is responsible for any negative consequences resulting from the ad; he is saying it is their own fault.
Q 10708 [gaps] The speaker says brand images evolve. Which brand does he mention as representative of change and which of consistency? / Change: {1} Consistency: {2}
  {1} options: Apple | Old Spice | Coca-Cola | Patagonia | Pepsi | Nike
  {2} options: Apple | Old Spice | Patagonia | Nike | Pepsi | Coca-Cola
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer mentions Coca-Cola as an example of consistency, stating, 'Think about Coca-Cola's iconic red logo: it is instantly recognizable worldwide.' He mentions Patagonia as an example of adapting to changing societal trends or consumer preferences: “Patagonia's commitment to sustainability reflects a shift towards ethical consumption, earning praise from environmentally conscious consumers.”
Q 10709 [checkbox] What does the professor suggest when she says this? /  https://test-english.com/staging11/wp-content/uploads/TOEFL-Exam1-Listening2-Q6.mp3 /  Choose TWO answers.
 19921) A. He has firsthand experience of brand building.
 19922) B. Ogilvy was a marketing company in the retail sector.
 19923) C. Brand Image matters critically for startup companies.
 19924) D. Brand image is chief determiner of success or failure.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ When the speaker says “I was at Ogilvy” it means he worked there, which suggests he has direct experience in brand building. When he adds “I saw just how pivotal brand image is to success,” that suggests that brand image actually decides whether the brand will succeed or not.
Q 10710 [radio] What is the purpose of the lecture?
 19925) A. To consider the evolution and complexity of the English language
 19926) B. To detail the role of Norman French in the development of Old English.
 19927) C. To identify the events leading to the rise of an English-speaking aristocracy.
 19928) D. To discuss the influence of trade and colonial expansion on the English language.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecture discusses the evolution of the English language from its Germanic roots through to the emergence of Middle English. It explores the influence of Norman French, societal events, and trade, explaining how English absorbed vocabulary without discarding its own, changed its grammar and altered its pronunciation: in short, it considers the evolution and complexity of English.
Q 10712 [radio] What does the existence of words like “cow” and “beef” illustrate?
 19933) A. How Old English replaced Norman French.
 19934) B. How words from different languages started to coexist
 19935) C. How French words were not only used in legal matters.
 19936) D. How English words became dominant in Europe.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The existence of words like "cow" (Old English) and "beef" (Norman French) shows how English absorbed French words after the Norman Conquest. Instead of replacing Old English terms, French words were added alongside them. Both sets of words were used in different contexts—for example, Old English terms for the animals and French terms for the food prepared from them—showing how the languages coexisted.
Q 10722 [checkbox] Why does the speaker mention the Norman Conquest? (Choose two options)
 19973) A. To describe the linguistic differences it created between social classes.
 19974) B. To use as an example of French dominance.
 19975) C. To imply that English was a weaker language than French.
 19976) D. To highlight the influence that French had on English.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The speaker mentions the Norman Conquest to explain how it led to a sociolinguistic divide between the upper classes, who spoke Norman French, and the lower classes, who spoke Old English, and to show the lasting impact of French on the English language.
Q 10713 [radio] According to the speaker, what happened when Middle English emerged?
 19937) A. English became the preferred language of authors like Chaucer.
 19938) B. It replaced Old English practically overnight.
 19939) C. English became more subtle and expressive.
 19940) D. English vocabulary exploded.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer says that 'it developed a more rigid word order and adopted many French prefixes and suffixes, which expanded its capacity for nuanced expression.' In other words, it became capable of more subtlety and greater expression
Q 10714 [gaps] Match the following historical events with the influence they had on the English language. /  Norman Conquest > {1}  /  Hundred Years' War > {2}  /  Black Death > {3}  /  Expansion of Trade and Colonialism > {4}
  {1} options: Building a strong English national identity | Increased social mobility | The integration of French vocabulary | Increased borrowing of words from other languages
  {2} options: Increased borrowing of words from other languages | The integration of French vocabulary | Increased social mobility | Building a strong English national identity
  {3} options: The integration of French vocabulary | Increased borrowing of words from other languages | Building a strong English national identity | Increased social mobility
  {4} options: Increased social mobility | The integration of French vocabulary | Increased borrowing of words from other languages | Building a strong English national identity
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ “The integration of French vocabulary” is correct for “The Norman Conquest” because the lecture mentions, 'Words like 'court,' 'judge,' 'jury,' 'parliament,' and 'government' entered English through Norman French...' /  ‣ “The fostering English national identity” is correct for the “Hundred Years’ War” because the lecturer says, 'The prolonged conflict between England and France during the Hundred Years' War... fostered a sense of English national identity.' /  ‣ “Increased social mobility” is correct for the “Black Death” because the speaker tells us that 'The Black Death... drastically reduced the population, creating a shortage of skilled workers. Since these workers primarily spoke English, their increased social mobility helped English reassert itself.' /  ‣ “Increased borrowing of words from other languages” is correct for the “the expansion of trade in the 15th and 16th centuries and Britain's global colonial expansion in the 17th and 18th centuries, the borrowing process only accelerated'
Q 10715 [radio] It may be inferred that the Statute of Pleading enacted in 1362 was significant for the English language. Why?
 19945) A. It stopped French words from being added to English.
 19946) B. It limited the use of Norman French to legal matters.
 19947) C. It promoted the use of Latin in the administration.
 19948) D. It officially recognized English for use in the administration.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer says “In 1362, the Statute of Pleading was enacted, mandating that English, rather than French, be used in the courts.” Since this was an act of parliament it was an official, state edict, it is saying that the state was endorsing—and in fact, requiring—the use of English rather than French.
Q 10716 [radio] What is the main idea of the lecture on desertification?
 19949) A. The economic impacts of desertification on global markets.
 19950) B. The causes and direct and indirect effects of desertification.
 19951) C. The role of agriculture in accelerating desertification.
 19952) D. The history and future of desertification in arid regions.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer discusses various factors contributing to desertification, including climate change and human activities such as intensive grazing and deforestation, and unsustainable agricultural practices. It then goes on to talk about the effects of desertification—those that are direct, such as habitat loss and falling crop yields, and those that are indirect, such as food insecurity and social conflicts.
Q 10717 [radio] What is the lecturer's attitude towards the role of human activity in desertification?
 19953) A. He believes natural processes are equally to blame.
 19954) B. He thinks human activities are major contributors.
 19955) C. He hopes human activities can solve desertification.
 19956) D. He sees desertification as an inevitable phenomenon.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The lecturer clearly states that desertification is "usually exacerbated by human activities" and provides examples such as intensive grazing, deforestation, and unsustainable agricultural practices. This indicates that the lecturer believes human activities play a significant role in accelerating desertification, making B the most appropriate choice.
Q 10718 [gaps] Match the following Contributing Factors to their Effects: /  Intensive grazing > {1}  /  Loss of vegetation > {2}  /  Deforestation > {3}  /  Unsustainable agricultural practices > {4}
  {1} options: Soil loss | Decreased water supply | Soil degradation | Moisture Loss
  {2} options: Soil loss | Decreased water supply | Soil degradation | Moisture Loss
  {3} options: Moisture Loss | Decreased water supply | Soil degradation | Soil loss
  {4} options: Decreased water supply | Soil degradation | Moisture Loss | Soil loss
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ For intensive grazing, the speaker says, “Intensive grazing leads to erosion... the soil disappears over time.” /  ‣ For loss of vegetation, we are told that “Without greenery, moisture evaporates.” /  ‣ For deforestation, the lecturer points out that, “Removing trees exposes the topsoil to the elements, causing degradation and, ultimately, leading to desertification.” /  ‣ For unsustainable agricultural practices, the lecture says that “unsustainable agricultural practices, such as monoculture farming, poor irrigation and lack of mulching, can reduce the capacity for water replenishment, making conditions increasingly arid as less and less water becomes available.”
Q 10719 [radio] It may be inferred that habitat fragmentation leads to
 19961) A. the endangerment of species.
 19962) B. changes in migrant behavior.
 19963) C. changes in breeding habits.
 19964) D. increased desertification.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The speaker mentions loss of habitat and habitat fragmentation and its impact on migratory animals. He highlights the vulnerability of plant and animal species, saying, 'Some don't make it,' from which we can guess that some plants and animals become endangered species as numbers decline.
Q 10720 [radio] Why does the speaker mention Darfur?
 19965) A. To illustrate the result of falling crop yields.
 19966) B. To compare the US with a less fortunate country.
 19967) C. To emphasize how serious desertification can be.
 19968) D. To show the vulnerability of subsistence farming.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The speaker mentions Darfur to provide an example of how desertification has led to a severe crisis, including "hundreds of thousands dead and millions displaced." This example underscores the devastating consequences desertification can have, illustrating its seriousness and potential to destabilize entire regions.
Q 10721 [radio] What does the speaker mean when he says this? /  https://test-english.com/staging11/wp-content/uploads/TOEFL_Exam1-Listening5-Q6.mp3
 19969) A. people in the US aren't affected by desertification.
 19970) B. nobody ever thinks they'll be affected by war.
 19971) C. Americans don't appreciate the impact of climate change.
 19972) D. US agricultural practices are much better than elsewhere.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ In the context of the speaker's statement, "We believe we're safe," the speaker is suggesting that people (especially in more developed countries like the US) tend to feel complacent and don't fully recognize the potential dangers of desertification or climate change. The example given about people in Darfur thinking the same reinforces the idea that people often assume such issues won't affect them, but they can and do.

=== PAGE /listening/b1/stories-of-school-and-education-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 10872 [radio] Why does Sam mention the essays?
 20417) A. To describe how hard he has to work.
 20418) B. Because he is proud of his last essay.
 20419) C. To state that he needs to stop.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sam talks about how challenging the essays are and how many they have to do, showing the effort he has to put into his studies.
Q 10873 [radio] Why are Sam's exams so crucial?
 20420) A. Because it's his last semester.
 20421) B. Because he wants to study in a foreign country.
 20422) C. Because he needs a good mark in German.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sam mentions his plans to study abroad, and passing his exams is essential for making that possible.
Q 10874 [radio] Why did Jessica have to drop a class last term?
 20423) A. Because she wanted more flexibility in her schedule.
 20424) B. Because balancing both work and school was too much.
 20425) C. Because the assignments were too hard.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jessica explains that it was difficult to manage both her job and her coursework at the same time.
Q 10875 [radio] What does Jessica say she's learning from studying online?
 20426) A. How to use digital tools.
 20427) B. How to be more productive.
 20428) C. How to work with people.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jessica mentions learning teamwork skills from her group tasks and collaboration in online classes.
Q 10876 [radio] Why did Liam have to retake some exams?
 20429) A. Because he didn't take them when he was at school.
 20430) B. Because they weren't easy.
 20431) C. Because his marks weren't good enough.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Liam had to retake exams because he failed them on his first try, indicating his marks were too low.
Q 10877 [radio] What would Liam like to do after his graduation?
 20432) A. Pursue advanced studies in engineering.
 20433) B. Start a business.
 20434) C. Work in a different field.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Liam mentions wanting to specialize further, which would involve more studies in engineering.
Q 10878 [radio] Why didn't Daniel get good grades in high school?
 20435) A. He had trouble adapting to all the changes.
 20436) B. He was hanging out with the wrong people.
 20437) C. He didn't understand the importance of studying.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Daniel says his grades were bad because of the influence of new friends.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/dark-tourism-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 10879 [radio] According to the video...
 20438) A. Dark tourism is generally considered unethical.
 20439) B. Most dark tourist destinations are related to war events.
 20440) C. Not all dark tourists are just curious about tragedy and disaster.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The transcript mentions that dark tourists visit sites associated with tragedy, disaster, or historical conflict not only to satisfy curiosity but also "for a deeper understanding of human history and the impact of these events" and to "learn about and reflect on the past." This implies that visitors have motivations beyond mere curiosity about tragic events.
Q 10880 [radio] Why has Aokigahara Forest become a dark tourist destination?
 20441) A. Because of the people who have made tragic decisions there.
 20442) B. Because it's said to be haunted.
 20443) C. Because it's a silent eery place.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Aokigahara Forest, also known as the "Suicide Forest," has become a dark tourism destination primarily due to its tragic association with individuals who have chosen to end their lives there. While its eerie silence and dense vegetation add to its unsettling atmosphere (related to option C), it is the forest's reputation as a site where many people have made tragic decisions that has drawn visitors interested in its dark history.
Q 10881 [radio] Why are there signs in the forest?
 20444) A. Because it's very dense, and it's easy to get lost.
 20445) B. To indicate how to get help.
 20446) C. To prevent people from ending their lives.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ According to the video, these signs are meant to encourage individuals in distress to seek help. This means their purpose is to prevent people from ending their lives, offering support.
Q 10882 [radio] According to the video, which of the following is true about Pripyat?
 20447) A. Many people were injured by the explosion.
 20448) B. The Ferris wheel never opened to the public.
 20449) C. Children were attending school when the accident happened.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ According to the video, the Ferris wheel in Pripyat was scheduled to open just days after the Chernobyl disaster, but it never had the chance to operate due to the immediate evacuation of the city.
Q 10883 [radio] Why does the video mention the forest near Pripyat?
 20450) A. Because all its trees suddenly turned red.
 20451) B. Because it helps explain the impact of the tragedy.
 20452) C. Because the levels of radiation are still very high.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ According to the video, the forest near Pripyat is mentioned because its red-colored trees illustrate the severe effects of the Chernobyl disaster. The transformation of the forest, often referred to as the "Red Forest," visually demonstrates the level of radiation exposure and environmental impact caused by the explosion, helping viewers understand the scale of the tragedy.
Q 10884 [radio] Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a use for the Cu Chi Tunnels?
 20453) A. Repelling American attacks.
 20454) B. Accommodating soldiers.
 20455) C. Carrying provisions.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ According to the video, the Cu Chi Tunnels were primarily used to carry provisions and accommodate soldiers, providing hiding spots, supply routes, and living quarters. While the tunnels enabled the Viet Cong to launch surprise attacks and evade American forces, they were not specifically mentioned as being used to repel American attacks directly.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/discussing-news-and-media-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 10885 [radio] He would watch more TV if there were no advertising.
 20456) A. True
 20457) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ According to the video, the journalist mentions that he’s not a huge fan of adverts and tends to avoid live broadcasts unless it’s something significant. This suggests that he would likely watch more TV if there were no advertisements, as the ads are a reason he avoids live broadcasts.
Q 10886 [radio] He only reads from unbiased news sources.
 20458) A. True
 20459) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The journalist mentions that he 'tries to stick to sources with more unbiased reporting', but he also enjoys reading editorials that offer different perspectives. This shows that, although he prefers unbiased sources, he doesn't exclusively read them.
Q 10887 [radio] He says that journalists nowadays don't enjoy doing research.
 20460) A. True
 20461) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He does not say that journalists don’t like to do research. Instead, he explains that the pressure for immediacy and clicks in online media often forces journalists to publish quickly, sacrificing quality and depth of research. This is due to time constraints, not a lack of interest in conducting research.
Q 10888 [radio] He implies that news in the past was more accurate than now.
 20462) A. True
 20463) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He mentions that printed newspapers allowed journalists more time for detailed research, which made stories more reliable. In contrast, today’s focus on immediacy and clicks has led to a decline in the quality and depth of research, making the news less reliable.
Q 10889 [radio] He believes people nowadays don't want in-depth news.
 20464) A. True
 20465) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He suggests that people today often don't have the time for in-depth reporting. He notes that technology has changed both journalism and the audience, implying that readers now prioritize quick updates over detailed analysis. This indicates that there is less demand for in-depth news than in the past.
Q 10890 [radio] He says the anchors covering the 9/11 attacks live appeared confused.
 20466) A. True
 20467) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He recalls watching the 9/11 attacks live on TV and describes how the anchors were struggling to process what was happening. This indicates that the anchors were indeed confused and overwhelmed by the unfolding events, which added to the intensity of the live coverage.
Q 10891 [radio] He was as shocked by the Capitol attack as he was by the 9/11 attacks.
 20468) A. True
 20469) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He found the Capitol attack shocking and surreal, but he describes the 9/11 attacks as the live news event that had the most impact on him. He implies that 9/11 was uniquely impactful, suggesting he was more affected by it than by the Capitol attack.

=== PAGE /listening/a1/giving-personal-information-a1-english-listening-test/
Q 11194 [radio] His address is 48 _____ Avenue, Birmingham.
 21165) A. Chesterton
 21166) B. Chereston
 21167) C. Chertson
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He spells C-H-E-S-T-E-R-T-O-N.
Q 11196 [radio] His email address is _____.
 21168) A. efernsby6@gmail.com
 21169) B. e.fernsby86@gmail.com
 21170) C. dotfernsby86@gmail.com
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He spells E dot F-E-R-N-S-B-Y 86 at gmail.com. /  ‣ Dot means '.' and at is @.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/culture-shock-living-abroad-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 11198 [radio] Andrew's landlord sent him an apology letter.
 21171) A. True
 21172) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ His landlord gave him an apology gift, not a letter.
Q 11199 [radio] Andrew isn't good at wrapping gifts.
 21173) A. True
 21174) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Andrew says wrapping is an art form he hasn’t mastered yet.
Q 11200 [radio] Erica wasn't the typical Brit when she first arrived in Brazil.
 21175) A. True
 21176) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ She acted like a typical Brit by arriving exactly on time, unlike the locals.
Q 11201 [radio] Now, Erica has to make an effort when she's in England.
 21177) A. True
 21178) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ She says it’s hard for her to adapt back to rigid schedules when she visits England.
Q 11202 [radio] April went to Vietnam because she wanted to change her life.
 21179) A. True
 21180) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ She says she was in a bad place personally and wanted to experience something new.
Q 11203 [radio] April talks about what happens to the people who visit her.
 21181) A. True
 21182) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ She mentions how she enjoys seeing visitors’ reactions to Vietnamese traffic.
Q 11204 [radio] For Scott, wildlife is the most remarkable thing about Kenya.
 21183) A. True
 21184) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ While he finds the landscapes breathtaking, he’s most surprised by the strong sense of community.
Q 11205 [radio] Back home, Scott once had to wait hours to receive road assistance.
 21185) A. True
 21186) B. False
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ He says he might have been stranded for hours, but he doesn’t say it actually happened.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/crime-scene-investigation-b1-english-listening-test/
Q 11440 [radio] What happened in the case Dr. Carter described?
 21588) A. Someone wanted to rob and kill the victim.
 21589) B. The perpetrator tried to rob the victim but failed.
 21590) C. The perpetrator didn't try to rob the victim.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The crime scene was staged to look like a robbery, but nothing valuable was stolen.
Q 11441 [radio] What did the killer do on the night of the murder?
 21591) A. He only took worthless items.
 21592) B. He pretended to be a burglar.
 21593) C. He didn't find any valuable items.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The suspect made it seem like a burglary to mislead investigators.
Q 11442 [radio] What did they do during the investigation?
 21594) A. They started by eliminating possible suspects.
 21595) B. They conducted DNA tests on everyone close to the victim.
 21596) C. They tried to find witnesses in the neighbourhood.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ They first checked people whose fingerprints were found in the house and ruled them out using DNA tests.
Q 11443 [radio] What led the investigators to think the suspect was a hired hitman?
 21597) A. Security cameras.
 21598) B. The autopsy.
 21599) C. Phone records.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The autopsy showed the victim was shot with professional precision, suggesting a hired hitman.
Q 11444 [radio] What helped investigators identify the suspect?
 21600) A. The victim's wife's phone records.
 21601) B. The security cameras in the neighborhood.
 21602) C. Fingerprints found in the house.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The wife's phone records showed repeated calls to the hitman, leading to his identification.
Q 11445 [radio] Which is true about the trial?
 21603) A. The killer and the victim's wife were sentenced to 25 years in prison.
 21604) B. The killer will spend the rest of his life in prison.
 21605) C. The wife's sentence was reduced because of a lack of evidence.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The hitman received a life sentence without parole, while the wife got 25 years.
Q 11446 [radio] What was the killer's main mistake?
 21606) A. He didn't steal anything.
 21607) B. He used a gun.
 21608) C. He parked his car in front of the house.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The fact that nothing was stolen made the crime scene suspicious and exposed the plan.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/socializing-and-parties-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 11447 [radio] Based on Sophie's comments, which best describes her socializing style?
 21609) A. She loves clubbing just as much as small gatherings.
 21610) B. She prefers small, friendly gatherings.
 21611) C. She enjoys attending formal events with people she knows.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sophie mentioned that she used to go clubbing but now prefers smaller gatherings, making B the correct choice. A is incorrect because she no longer enjoys clubbing as much, and C is incorrect because she didn't mention a preference for formal events.
Q 11448 [radio] What's true about the social event Sophie mentioned attending?
 21612) A. They went to a friend's new home before going out for drinks.
 21613) B. They bought some presents for a friend's new place.
 21614) C. They met up at a bar for drinks and a chat.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Sophie said she and her friends brought gifts for their friend's new home, making B correct. A and C are incorrect because she never mentioned going out for drinks or meeting at a bar.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/behind-the-scenes-with-an-actor-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 11496 [radio] What do they say about the movie?
 21807) A. The movie has been in cinemas for one week.
 21808) B. It has earned 100 million dollars in the US.
 21809) C. Jake was sure it would be a success.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The interviewer says, 'Your new film was released just last week,' which means the movie has been in cinemas for one week.
Q 11497 [radio] What does Jake say about the locations?
 21810) A. The movie was shot in two main locations.
 21811) B. Some of the locations were dangerous.
 21812) C. It was tough to shoot in some of the locations.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jake Carter describes filming in 'pretty extreme conditions', mentioning a scene shot 'in the Atacama Desert in Chile' and another 'on top of a skyscraper in New York.' This suggests that some locations were challenging to work in. Option A is incorrect because the movie was filmed in various locations, not just two. Option B is also incorrect because he does not specifically mention that the locations were dangerous, only that they were extreme and intense to film in.
Q 11498 [radio] What does Jake say about his character?
 21813) A. It's the most different character he's ever played.
 21814) B. He worked with the director to learn combat techniques.
 21815) C. The script helped him get into the role.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jake Carter says, 'The script was also really well-written, which made it easier to bring the role to life.' This means the script helped him get into the role. Option A is incorrect because he says, 'This character was very different from anything I've done before,' but not that it was the most different. Option B is incorrect because he mentions training and learning combat techniques, but he worked with the director to understand the character's mindset, not specifically to learn combat techniques.
Q 11499 [radio] What do they say about the cast?
 21816) A. None of them were big stars, but they were all very talented.
 21817) B. Some actors gave better performances than others.
 21818) C. Some celebrities make brief appearances in the film.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jake Carter says, 'The cast was incredibly supportive, and we all pushed each other to give our best performances. There were also a few great cameo appearances that fans will love.' This means that some celebrities have brief appearances in the film, which matches option C.
Q 11500 [radio] What does Jake say about the special effects?
 21819) A. It wasn't easy to interact with things that weren't there.
 21820) B. They used AI to create the visuals.
 21821) C. The special effects were used to show his character's imagination.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Jake Carter says, 'When you're on set, you're just reacting to things that aren't actually there, so you really have to use your imagination.' This means it wasn't easy to interact with things that didn't physically exist, which matches option A.
Q 11501 [radio] What do they say about the critics?
 21822) A. Most reviews say it's a must-see film.
 21823) B. The film has received mixed reviews.
 21824) C. Jake doesn't agree with some of the reviews.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The interviewer says, 'Some critics have called the film gripping, while others have said it's a bit cheesy.' This shows that there have been mixed opinions about the film, which matches option B. Option A is incorrect because the reviews are not all positive—some critics found it cheesy. Option C is incorrect because Jake acknowledges different opinions but does not say that he disagrees with any of them. Instead, he laughs and says, 'Well, everyone has their own opinion!'
Q 11502 [radio] Will there be a second part of this movie?
 21825) A. Most likely, yes.
 21826) B. Probably not.
 21827) C. It depends.
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ The interviewer asks Jake about a possible sequel, and he responds, 'I can't say too much, but let's just say the story isn't over yet. If the audience loves this one, who knows? A sequel might be on the way!' This means that whether there will be a second part depends on the audience's reaction, which matches option C.

=== PAGE /listening/b1-b2/i-should-have-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 11594 [radio] Which of these things did Emma do?
 21992) A. Left home early
 21993) B. Take a train
 21994) C. Made a good impression with her interviewer
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Emma mentioned that she relied on public transport and took a train to the airport, but it was delayed. She did not leave home early, and she said she would have made a better impression if she had been there in person — so she didn’t make a good impression.
Q 11595 [radio] Which of these things did Emma NOT do?
 21995) A. Book a taxi
 21996) B. Pack her things in the morning
 21997) C. Reschedule the interview
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Emma said she could have booked a taxi instead of relying on public transport, which means she didn’t book one. She also mentioned that she should have packed her things the night before, which means she actually packed in the morning. Finally, she said that she had to reschedule the interview after missing her flight.
Q 11596 [radio] Which of these things did Tyler do?
 21998) A. Listen to his friend
 21999) B. Raise his voice
 22000) C. Take a step back
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Tyler said he shouldn’t have raised his voice, which means he did raise it during the argument. He admitted that he didn’t listen carefully to his friend and that he didn’t take a step back to think before reacting.
Q 11597 [radio] Which of these things did Tyler NOT do?
 22001) A. Misunderstand his friend
 22002) B. Have patience
 22003) C. Apologise several times
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Tyler said he could have handled the situation with more patience, which means he didn't have much patience at the time. He admitted he misunderstood his friend and later apologised several times, which helped save the friendship.
Q 11598 [radio] Which of these things did James do?
 22004) A. See that her colleague was struggling
 22005) B. Ask his colleague is she needed support
 22006) C. Learn something from helping her
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ James said he noticed that his colleague was struggling and often stayed late, but he didn’t ask if she needed support. He also said he could have learned something by helping her, which means he didn't actually help or learn from the experience.
Q 11599 [radio] Which of these things did James NOT do?
 22007) A. Ignore his colleague
 22008) B. Think someone would help her
 22009) C. Speak to her
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ James said he should have spoken to her, which means he didn't. He did notice she was struggling and assumed someone else would help, so he didn’t completely ignore her — he just didn’t take action.
Q 11600 [radio] Which of these things did Maya do?
 22010) A. Stay home
 22011) B. Prioritize her family
 22012) C. Go there for a couple of hours
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Maya said she decided not to go to the family gathering because she felt tired, so she stayed home. She later said she should have prioritised her family and that she could have gone for at least a couple of hours, which means she didn't do either of those things.
Q 11601 [radio] Which of these things did Maya NOT do?
 22013) A. Get some rest
 22014) B. Have regrets
 22015) C. Make time for the event
  SITE FEEDBACK: ‣ Maya said she could have managed her time better and gone for at least a couple of hours, which means she didn't make time for the event. She stayed home to rest and later regretted her decision after her grandmother passed away unexpectedly.

=== PAGE /listening/b2/regrets-i-wish-id-b2-english-listening-test/
Q 11787 [radio] Emma...
 22621) A. is planning to take a gap year.
 22622) B. wants to follow her passion.
 22623) C. did what others wanted for her.
  SITE FEEDBACK: Emma says, 'I think I made my decision to start this degree influenced by what others expected of me,' which shows she followed what others wanted.
